IBA Institute of
 Business Administr ation
 Karachi
Leadership and Ideas for Tomorrow
PROGRA M ANNOU NCEMENT
2024-25
 2
 V
---
PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
---
 PROGRAM 03 Table of Conter ts
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

Message from the Executive Director 04 School of Economics & Social Sciences (SESS) 49
Message from the Registrar 05 Programs on Offer 51
Academic calendar 2024-2025 08 BS (Economics) 54
IBA in Numbers 10 BS (Economics and Mathematics) 59
Academic programs 11 BS (Social Sciences and Liberal Arts) 64
Deans and Chairpersons 14 MS (Development Studies) 75
Fee structure 15 MS (Economics) 77
Financial assistance program 16 MS (Journalism) 79
Facilities at IBA 17 PhD (Economics) 80
Student services 20
Ofﬁce of Student Affairs 22 School of Mathematics & Computer Science (SMCS) 82
Activities studio 25 Programs on Offer 83
 BS (Computer Science) 86
Schools BS (Mathematics) 92
 MS (Computer Science) 95
School of Business Studies (SBS) 28 MS (Data Science) 97
Programs on Offer 29 MS (Mathematics) 99
BBA 31 PhD (Computer Science) 101
BS (Accounting and Finance) 34 PhD (Mathematics) 102
MBA 38
EMBA 39 Student enrollment statistics 104
MS (Finance) 40 Calendar of Holidays 105
MS (Islamic Banking and Finance) 42 Excerpts of the academic calendar 2024-25 106
MS (Management) 44
MS (Marketing) 46
---
 04 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

Message from the
Executive Director
It gives me immense pleasure and pride to welcome you all to Pakistan’s leading
institution of higher learning, the IBA. I can assure you, that this is going to be a
life-changing experience for each one of you, one that you will never forget, and this
starts as soon as you enter the IBA for the very ﬁrst time. You are the new admissions
to IBA’s Class of 28 and by being admitted, which is always a very challenging and
competitive process, you have already shown your capabilities and potential, we know
how good you are. Congratulations on this huge achievement! You should feel an
immense sense of pride and achievement and ought to be prepared for what we know
will be the best years of your life.

The IBA has a stellar history of seven decades, with high academic standards and
ethical values, and I hope all of you will quickly assimilate these traits which are part of
our 16,000 plus global alumni network. The IBA offers a very high standard of learning
and education, and I am convinced that this process of education will beneﬁt each one
of you immensely. Apart from class learning, the IBA also has a large number of
student societies and numerous and varied extracurricular activities which all of you
should partake in and beneﬁt from. We pride ourselves for the sports and recreational
facilities we offer. For us, the IBA experience goes well beyond the classroom.

The IBA journey is challenging and requires dedication and commitment, and hard
work on your part and is one of high academic standards. While you study, do
remember that the educational experience is also one of fun and joy. In this process of
acquiring your degrees and learning, don’t forget to enjoy yourself and experience life’s
many gifts. The IBA will support you in every way possible as you pursue your dreams
and goals. Enjoy the next few years, they will surely be the ones you remember most.

Dr. S Akbar Zaidi
Executive Director
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 05

 Message from the
 Registrar
 Ofﬁce of the Registrar envisions a learning experience for students that fosters
 personal and professional growth during their time at the Institute. With the growing
 needs of key stakeholders in view, our team works as a catalyst to facilitate a seamless
 transition of quality education.

 In the recent year, we have successfully upscaled and initiated various physical and
 virtual enhancements to the campus experience. To develop and facilitate a
 conducive learning environment, a new Wi-Fi 6 solution has been deployed across all
 IBA premises, allowing for improved efﬁciency and enhanced performance in dense
 environments. The classrooms have also been upgraded with state-of-the-art
 technology and facilities to further enhance the learning experience. The expansion of
 the Boys Hostel has enabled the premises to accommodate approximately 469
 students, while the Girls Hostel expansion has now added up to approximately 144
 more spaces for students. Along with the student body, the project of faculty
 accommodation has been duly evaluated and now the designated apartments are
 under ﬁnalization stage.

 With the vision of strengthening our commitment towards extracurricular activities,
 IBA Sports & Community Engagement (SP@CE), has been actively providing new
 opportunities and exposure to the IBA community. Various events were held during
 last academic year to engage over 10,000 extended community members, including
 the HEC All Pakistan Intervarsity Women Cricket Championship, HEC Cricket
 Trials/Camp for Domestic Cricket and President Trophy 2023-24, IBA Sports Gala and
 Athletics Championship 2024, and PCB Intervarsity Women Cricket Championship
 2024.

 The Ofﬁce of Registrar is committed to ensure a cooperative, efﬁcient, and effective
 environment, paving the way towards personal and professional growth for the
 leaders of tomorrow. With our commitment to support you at every step, we wish you
 a remarkable academic experience ahead.

Dr. Mohammad Asad Ilyas
Registrar
---
 06

About IBA
Founded in 1955, Institute of Business Administration (IBA), Karachi is a leading institution for higher learning. With a legac y of
almost seven decades, the Institute comprises three schools: School of Business Studies (SBS), School of Economics & Social
Sciences (SESS), and School of Mathematics & Computer Science (SMCS).

IBA Karachi has nurtured generations of leaders and its esteemed alumni have ascended to prominent roles as thought leaders
and CEOs in nationals and international corporations. The IBA alumni have made signiﬁcant contributions across diverse ﬁelds
including media, philanthropy, academics, politics, technology, arts, governance, entrepreneurship, and industries.

The IBA has expanded its academic offerings beyond business administration to include programs in social sciences, data science ,
and other emerging ﬁelds, while preserving its core values and principles of imparting quality education. We are driven to ensu ring
quality education to students selected on merit, irrespective of ethnicity, gender, religion, or ﬁnancial means.

The Institute emphasizes a teaching and learning environment that nurtures critical thinking, ethical conduct, and effective
decision-making skills among its students. IBA’s core values includes discipline, creativity, tolerance, integrity, inclusivity , and
teamwork. These values not only shape the character of our students but also contribute to the institutional culture that foste rs
innovation and prepares graduates for leadership roles.

Today, the IBA stands as an institution that not only prepares students for the corporate world but also for signiﬁcant contrib utions
to business, government, and civil society. Continuously adapting to meet the current educational needs and global practices, the
IBA remains dedicated to maintaining its academic excellence and elevating the communities it serves.
---
PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 07

 To be among the best learning Discipline
 institutions in Pakistan. Discipline requires self-regulation and
 adherence to an established code of
 conduct. Discipline facilitates the smooth
 functioning of the institute and is essential
 for an IBA student.

 Creativity
 Creativity breeds innovation which is
 critical for an institution to expand its
 frontiers. IBA students are encouraged to
 generate new ideas to attain their goals.

 Tolerance
 Tolerance represents the ability and
 willingness toaccept and coexist with other
 opinions and behaviors. Tolerance is an
 essential characteristic of successful
 individuals and societies.
 To impart quality education in
 numerous educational ﬁelds to Integrity
 students selected on merit irrespective Integrity suggests the quality of being
 of ethnicity, gender, religion, or ﬁnancial honest and having strong moral principles.
 means. Integrity is crucial to the reputation of
 individual students as well as that of the
 To provide a teaching and learning IBA.
 environment that encourages critical Teamwork
 thinking, ethical conduct and effective Teamwork
 decision making. Teamwork requires harmonizing individual
 effort to achieve a common goal. Without
 To undertake original research that teamwork, individual efforts can be wasted
 enriches teaching which beneﬁts and institutions can suffer.
 business, government and civil society.
---
 08 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

 Academic Calendar 2024-25

 FALL SEMESTER 2024 SPRING SEMESTER 2025
 Orientation Gala August 16 to 18, 2024 (Friday-Saturday) Orientation January 19, 2025 (Sunday)

 Classes start August 19, 2024 (Monday) Classes start January 20, 2025 (Monday)

 Midterm exams October 07 to 12, 2024 (Monday - Saturday) Midterm exams March 17 to 22, 2025 (Monday - Saturday)

 Mid-semester break October 14 to 19, 2024 (Monday – Saturday) Mid-semester break March 24 to 29, 2025 (Monday - Saturday)

 Faculty evaluation November 20 to December 03, 2024 Faculty evaluation April 28 to May 10, 2025

 Classes end December 14, 2024 (Saturday) Classes end May 19, 2025 (Monday)

 Teaching days 87 Teaching days 85

 Final exams December 16 – 31, 2024 Reserve days(+) May 20, 2025 (Tuesday)

 Results of Final Examinations January 15, 2025 (Wednesday) Final exams May 21 to June 3, 2025 (Wednesday - Tuesday)

 Results of Final Examinations June 18, 2025 (Wednesday)

 LIST OF HOLIDAYS LIST OF HOLIDAYS
Bhittai Day* Eid-Milad-un-Nabi Iqbal Day Quaid Day Benazir Day Kashmir Day Holi (Optional) Pakistan Day Eid ul Fitr(*) Bhutto Day Labor Day
 + Christmas
August 20, 2024 September 16, 2024 November 09, 2024 December 25, 2024 December 27, 2024 February 5, 2025 March 14, 2025 March 23, 2025 March 31 to April 04, 2025 May 1, 2025
 (Tuesday) (Monday) (Saturday) (Wednesday) (Friday) (Wednesday) (Friday) (Saturday) April 2, 2025 (Friday) (Wednesday)
 (Monday –
 Wednesday)
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 09

 SUMMER SEMESTER 2025 FALL SEMESTER 2025
 Classes start June 19, 2025 (Thursday) Orientation Gala August 15 to 17, 2025

 Midterms July 11 – 12, 2025 (Friday - Saturday) Classes start August 18, 2025 (Monday)

 Faculty evaluation July 21 to 26, 2025 (Monday – Saturday)

 Classes end August 02, 2025 (Saturday)

 Teaching days 36

 Final exams August 04 – 05, 2025 (Monday - Tuesday)

 Results of Final Examinations August 15, 2025 (Friday)

 LIST OF HOLIDAYS
 Eid ul Azha(*) Ashura(*)

 June 07 to 09, 2025 (Saturday - Monday) July 05 and 06, 2025 (Saturday - Sunday)

Important information / notes:
IBA Karachi reserves the right to change/update the academic calendar whenever it deems suitable.
(+) Reserve days will only be used for academic / teaching activities to make up for unexpected holidays, no extracurricular activity will be held
during the reserve days.
(*) The holidays mentioned above are subject to the sighting of the moon.
---
 10

 IBA IN NUMBERS

 Founding Year
 1955 Male: Female Student Ratio 60:40 Dedicated Schools 3
PhD Faculty Academic 22 Enrolled Students Student-run
 32+ Full-time
 Programs societies Faculty
 F
 18 0 Alumni International Linkages
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 11
Academic Programs
 School of Business Studies (SBS) Master of Business Administration (MBA) Master of Science (MS) Management
SBS is the largest and ﬂagship School in IBA. The SBS is a leading
business school in Pakistan with a state-of-the-art campus that follows Program Director: %ȯؘ٪tɍǕƇǼǼƇƫ٪¯ǕƇ˚ȮɍƲ Program Director: Dr. Ashar Saleem
the best international standards and offers faculty and students a The MBA program at IBA Karachi is among the pioneering business MS Management program is designed to prepare students for
unique learning and teaching experience. SBS is proactively pursuing programs in the region. Quality intake, academic rigor, and active high-quality research and in-depth analysis. Currently, we offer
AACSB accreditation and has already achieved a key milestone in the industry engagement are hallmarks of the MBA program. The alumni specializations in Strategy and Operations Management. The program
AACSB journey. SBS faculty comprises distinguished experts across include professionals who have achieved top positions in world-class is aimed at challenging students intellectually and enabling them to
various business disciplines and hold doctorates from world-re- organizations and established successful businesses. contribute towards the knowledge and practice of Management. Our
nowned universities. The school offers a wide range of programs in graduates are working in organizations as business analysts,
different management disciplines to train a new generation of Executive MBA consultants, and academics.
high-potential executives.
Director of Undergraduate Programs: Ms. Sumayyah Khurshid Khan Program Director: %ȯؘ٪tɍǕƇǼǼƇƫ٪¯ǕƇ˚ȮɍƲ Master of Science (MS) Marketing
Director of Graduate Programs: Dr. Ashar Saleem The Executive MBA program is designed to prepare working profes- Program Director: Dr. Ashar Saleem
 Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) sionals from diverse backgrounds for general management positions.
 The program develops strategic and cross-functional competencies MS Marketing program aims to drive students on a journey from the
Program Director: Ms. Sumayyah Khurshid Khan and broadens intellectual horizons through a rich experiential basic level to the highest conceptual areas and philosophies of
 exchange. An innovative learning experience based on case studies marketing. The degree will engage the students in a manner that
The BBA program is a full-time 128 credit hours program comprising and simulations provides participants with an opportunity to leap takes a pragmatic and applied approach to learning, enabling them to
four years of rigorous education, allowing the student to have a broad from managerial to leadership roles. solve business problems realistically and identify opportunities and
view of the business world. Although there are no formally labeled challenges while working in teams.
specializations, students can opt for any combination of electives from
Marketing, Accounting, Finance, Supply Chain, Human Resource Master of Science (MS) Finance
Management (HRM), Business Analytics and Entrepreneurship. To
ensure that BBA graduates from the IBA develop an awareness of Program Director: Dr. Ashar Saleem
societal and environmental challenges facing the world, students have
to undergo an internship as a responsible citizen initiative with a MS Finance was launched in the fall of 2020 as a specialized postgrad-
non-proﬁt organization (NPO). In addition, all BBA students are uate program, designed to provide a solid theoretical foundation, as
required to undergo a corporate internship to get exposure to the well as a computational skill set for a successful career in the ﬁeld of
business world. This exposure is augmented by a semester long ﬁnance. This program is designed to prepare graduates for challenges
experiential learning project (ELP), which takes the form of a consult- in the domestic and global ﬁnancial system by imparting comprehen-
ing project for an organization. This serves as on-the-job training in the sive knowledge of ﬁnance and its multidisciplinary aspects. Students
real business environment. gain in-depth knowledge with core courses in corporate ﬁnance and
 investments.

 Bachelor of Science (BS) Accounting and Finance Master of Science (MS) Islamic Banking
Program Coordinator: Ms. Sumayyah Khurshid Khan
The BSAF program is a full-time 126 credit hours program comprising Program Director: Dr. Ashar Saleem
4 years of rigorous education. The program is designed to provide an MS IBF is a 42 credit hours program to be completed in a minimum
exclusive opportunity for students to receive a specialization in duration of 1.5 years and a maximum duration of 4 years as approved by
Accounting and Finance. The graduates of this program obtain the HEC. It is offered to fresh graduates from business and other
multiple exemptions from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of disciplines, experienced practitioners and Shariah scholars. The
Pakistan (ICAP) and the Association of Chartered Certiﬁed Accoun- program is designed to meet the growing needs of the Islamic Finance
tants (ACCA). Furthermore, the Chartered Institute of Management industry by providing theoretical and applied knowledge of Islamic
Accountants (CIMA), Institute of Cost and Management Accountants Finance, Islamic Jurisprudence, Banking, and Economics. Graduates of
of Pakistan (ICMAP) and Institute of Bankers Pakistan (IBP) also the program will have promising career prospects in academia and the
provide exemptions on a case-to-case basis to the program graduates. local and international Islamic Finance industry. The MS IBF program is
 BBA and BSAF students can pursue a minor in Computer Science, Data Science & offered for both full-time and part-time (working) students.
 Software Engineering as offered by Department of Computer Science, SMCS.
 For more details, please refer to page 91.
---
 12 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 thinking, problem-solving, critical inquiry, and research. The program
 School of Economics and Social Sciences (SESS) offers majors in Psychology, Political Science, Media and Culture, and PhD Economics
 History. Students can also opt for a minor in World Literature or Urban
SESS is an amalgamation of two academic departments and two Studies. Moreover, the Culminating Experience can be completed by Program Director: Dr. Faiz Ur Rehman
research centers. The two academic departments are the Department students in their ﬁnal year of the program, if they have a CGPA of 3.0 or
of Economics, and the Department of Social Sciences and Liberal Arts higher. The experience provides students an opportunity to carry out The fully funded PhD Economics program provides comprehensive
(SSLA), and the two research centers include the Center for Business original research projects of their own. Students choose a foreign training in economic theory, quantitative methods, and practical
and Economic Research (CBER) and Population Research Center language to study for two semesters and complete two different applications. Focused on both theory and practice, the curriculum
(PRC). summer internships, one focusing on research skills and the other on meets the demands of economists in policy planning, analysis, and
The SESS has a faculty comprising seasoned academics, out of which social service. forecasting for both public and private sectors. Compliant with
37 faculty members hold PhDs. The Economics department’s faculty BS (Economics), BS (Economics and Mathematics) and BS (SSLA) students can international standards, the program ensures an intellectually
employs diverse teaching and research methods in their scholarly pursue a minor in Computer Science, Data Science & Software Engineering as offered stimulating experience, preparing graduates for impactful research
work and is highly specialized in the ﬁelds of Development Economics, by Department of Computer Science, SMCS. For more details, please refer to page 91. and diverse career opportunities in academia, research, corporate
Applied Economics, Macroeconomics, Trade, Industrial Organization, entities, government, and multinational corporations.
and Labor Economics. The Department of Social Sciences and Liberal
Arts prepares students in a wide range of academic disciplines includ- Master of Science (MS) Development Studies
ing Philosophy, History, Literature, Political Science, Urban Studies,
Media Studies, Anthropology, and Journalism. Program Director: Dr. Arslan Waheed

 Bachelor of Science (BS) Economics MS Development Studies is a multi and inter-disciplinary program
 that explores critical topics of development theory and practices,
Program Director: Dr. Heman Das Lohano viewing development as a complex and ongoing historical process.
 Development Studies also encompasses policy debates around the
The BS Economics program is designed to provide students with a need for accommodating varied local and grassroots responses to
solid foundation in Economics and to prepare them for entry-level regional or global development processes and rationalities.
positions in the private and public sectors, development organizations,
banks, investment ﬁrms, the education sector, and research organiza- Master of Science (MS) Economics
tions.
 Program Director: Dr. Faiz Ur Rehman
 Bachelor of Science (BS) Economics and Mathematics The MS Economics program provides a comprehensive foundation in
Program Director: Dr. Heman Das Lohano and Dr. Danish Ali economic theory, quantitative methods, and practical applications,
 equipping economists for effective policy planning and analysis.
The BS Economics and Mathematics program contains fundamental Aligned with international standards, the curriculum emphasizes
components of two ﬁelds of study: Economics and Mathematics. The applied economics to meet the growing demand for skilled analysts.
program prepares students for entry-level positions in private and Graduates will acquire the expertise necessary for careers in academia,
public sectors, development organizations, banks, insurance research, corporate entities, government, and multinational
companies, investment ﬁrms, education sector, and research corporations.
organizations.
 MS Journalism
Bachelor of Science (BS) Social Sciences and Liberal Arts Program Director: Dr. Arslan Waheed
Program Coordinator: Dr. Irum Iqbal Hussain MS Journalism at the Centre for Excellence in Journalism at IBA offers a
The Bachelor of Science (BS) in Social Sciences and Liberal Arts is a 1.5-year program that allows students to immerse themselves in all
4-year interdisciplinary undergraduate program. It draws from and forms of journalism - digital, audio, and video - and acquire hands-on
introduces students to a range of academic disciplines in social experience in a newsroom under the guidance of experienced
sciences and humanities. The combination of core and elective instructors. The up-to-date syllabus, which has been adapted, keeping
courses in the Social Sciences and Liberal Arts degree allows students the current global situation in mind, reﬂects new media trends and
to develop comprehensive skills in reading and writing, quantitative practices.
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 13

 School of Mathematics and Computer Science (SMCS)
The School of Mathematics and Computer Science (SMCS) at IBA is one
of the fastest-growing schools for excellence in teaching and research of
computer science in Pakistan. The SMCS has a qualiﬁed faculty
comprising experienced practitioners and researchers that enrich
teaching, provide business consultancies, support startups, and prepare
students for higher education and industry. The school has
state-of-the-art facilities focusing on undergraduate and graduate
education. The research labs for Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Web Science, Big
Data and Telecommunications allow computer science students to
delve deep into the technological realm. In contrast, the mathematics
programs offer a thorough background in pure and applied
mathematics ranging from high-performance computing to
commutative algebra.

 Bachelor of Science (BS) Computer Science
 Master of Science (MS) Computer Science
Program Coordinator: Dr. Tariq Mahmood

The Master of Science (MS) in Computer Science (MSCS) program offers
students with a bachelor's degree in CS or allied areas the opportunity
to advance their skills through specialized professional and research-ori-
ented training. The curriculum is designed to ensure that graduates can
creatively develop technology-based solutions, think critically, and
independently analyze systems and emerging problems. The program
also prepares students for doctoral studies, equipping them with the
foundational knowledge and research capabilities required for
advanced academic pursuits. Through a combination of advanced
coursework, practical projects, and mentorship from experienced
faculty, the MSCS program fosters a comprehensive understanding of
both theoretical and applied aspects of computer science, enabling
graduates to excel in academia, industry, and research environments.

Program Coordinator: Dr. Imran Rauf

The Bachelor of Science (BS) in Computer Science is a comprehensive
4-year degree designed to develop skilled professionals with strong
problem-solving capabilities in Computer Science (CS) and related
ﬁelds. This program also prepares students for roles in research and
development. The curriculum consists of 135 units, distributed as
follows: general education (19 units), CS core courses (56 units), CS
electives (21 units), program core courses (21 units), and general electives
(9 units). The program’s core and general elective courses are drawn
from supporting disciplines such as Mathematics, Statistics, Physics,
Accounting, Economics, Finance, Human Resource Management,
Marketing, Management, and Social Sciences & Liberal Arts. This diverse
selection of core and elective courses is carefully structured to provide
students with the ﬂexibility to pursue a professional career path that
aligns with their interests.

 Department of Computer Science offers minors to all undergraduate programs
 in the following areas:
 1. Data Science
 2. Computer Science
 3. Software Engineering
 For more details, please refer to page 91.

 Master of Science (MS) Data Science

Program Coordinator: Dr. Tariq Mahmood

Data Science lies at the intersection of machine learning, statistics, and
big data analysis. The Master of Science (MS) in Data Science (MSDS)
program prepares students to extract valuable insights from data using
state-of-the-art methods. Designed for students aiming to begin or
advance their careers in data science, the program offers a comprehen-
sive blend of statistical and Bayesian modeling, machine learning, deep
learning, management of massive data sets, data visualization, software
engineering, and data ethics. The curriculum ensures that graduates
are equipped with the skills necessary to tackle complex data challeng-
es, implement advanced analytical techniques, and contribute to
data-driven decision-making processes in various industries. Through
hands-on projects, interdisciplinary coursework, and mentorship from
experienced faculty, the MSDS program fosters the development of
both technical expertise and ethical considerations, enabling graduates
to excel as data science professionals.


 Master of Science (MS) Mathematics

 Bachelor of Science (BS) Mathematics Program Director: Dr. Danish Ali

 Program Coordinator: Dr. Babar Ahmed Qureshi MS in Mathematics aims to provide a thorough background in theory,
 quantitative methods, and applications commensurate with interna-
 Bachelor of Science (BS) Mathematics is a 4-year degree program. This tional standards, offering the opportunity for more specialized training
 program uniquely offers the opportunity to earn a concentration in in selected areas of pure and applied mathematics.
 allied areas of sciences while adhering to the mathematics core. The
 ﬂexibility and diversity that this scheme offers to students in studying
 mathematics, aligns with the current common structure of the
 BS-Math programs worldwide while keeping in line with HEC
 guidelines. Regular academic and professional career development
 guidance is available to students to help them cope with the
 challenges more effectively.
---
 14 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 Deans & Chairpersons
 Deans

 Dr. Abdullah Zafar Sheikh Dr. Asma Hyder Dr. Shakeel Ahmed Khoja
 School of Business Studies (SBS) School of Economics and Social School of Mathematics and Computer
 PhD (Human Resource Management), Sciences (SESS) Science (SMCS)
 PhD (Labor Economist), National PhD (Computer Science),
 University of Nottingham, UK University of Sciences and Technology, (Post-Doc Fellowship),
 Pakistan & Sussex University University of Southampton, UK
 (Post-Doc) University of Pennsylvania, USA

 Chairpersons
Accounting and Law Computer Science Economics Finance Management Marketing Mathematical Social Sciences and
 Sciences Liberal Arts

 Dr. Sharjeel Hasnie Dr. Shahid Hussain Dr. Muhammad Nasir Dr. Hilal Anwar Butt Dr. Sahar Awan Dr. Nida Aslam Khan Dr. Hisham Bin Zubair Dr. Laila Sohail Farooq

 PhD (Foreign) 91
 PhD (Local) 16
 Full-time Masters (Foreign) 25 11% Professor 33%
 Masters (Local) 28 26% 8%
 Faculty at Total 160 Associate Professor 67%
 Pursuing Higher Education 6 Assistant Professor
 a glance (Abroad)
 Pursuing Higher Education 55% Lecturer
 (Local) 5 PhD MS
 Total 11
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 15

 Fee Structure
 Fall 2024 intake
 Undergraduate Programs
 Particulars BBA & BS Programs Amount in PKR

 Tuition fee (per credit hour)
 (Fall-24 Intake) 28,000
 Student activity charges 7,000
 Course Feels) will be applicable on credit hour basis
 MBA Programs
 Particulars Morning Executive
 Tuition fee (per credit hour) 35,000 35,000
 (Fall-24 Intake)

Student activity charges 7,000 -
 Course Feels) will be applicable on credit hour basis

 MS Programs

 Particulars Full-time Programs Part time Programs
 Tuition fee(per credit hour)
 (Fall-24 Intake) 31,000 31,000
 Student activity charges -
 7,000


 Hostel Fee (per semester)
 Amount in
 Room Type
 PKR
 Single occupancy - without AC 110,400

 Double occupancy - without AC 106,260
 Three or more occupancy - without AC 104,400
 AC room - Single occupancy 121,440
 AC room - Double occupancy 117,300

 AC room - Three or more occupancy 113,850


Note:
1. The Summer Semester fees for Hostel residents staying for any reason
 will be charged on a prorate basis.

2. Utility charges for an AC room will be applied separately based on actual
 usage.
3. Currently, AC room facilities are available only in the Girls' Hostel.


 Course fee(s) will be applicable on credit hour basis

 One - time Charges
 Admission charges (all students) 115,000

 Orientation Courses Fee 40,000

 Transport Fee (per semester)
 Particulars Amount in PKR

 45,000 (0 -20 km)
 Charges
 65,000 (21 km-onwards)
---
 16 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Financial Assistance Program The IBA invites talented and meritorious students from any social background,
 across Pakistan to enroll and study at the Institute. At the IBA, we believe that
 PKR 3.17 billion granted between 2008-2024 students beneﬁtted from Qarz-e-Hasna ˚ǾƇǾƤǛƇǳ٪ǳǛǼǛɅƇɅǛȉǾȷ٪ȷǕȉɍǳƫ٪ǾȉɅ٪ƣƲ٪Ƈ٪ǕǛǾƫȯƇǾƤƲ٪ǛǾ٪ƇƤƤƲȷȷǛǾǍ٪ȮɍƇǳǛɅɬ٪ƲƫɍƤƇɅǛȉǾؘ
 Around 170 facility in 2023-2024
 students received ﬁnancial assistance in the students beneﬁtted from • The applicants may be required to appear for an interview if the FA
 41% academic year 2023-2024 Around 600 installment plan in the academic year 2023-2024 committee deems it necessary.
 • The Committee then ascertains the need level of the applicants against
 the student. This bridge ﬁnancing may range in between 25% and 100% of the the laid down criteria.
 Financial Assistance Packages applicable tuition fee and is decided by IBA Financial Assistance Committee (FAC). Scholarship awards are based on the available funds.
 The Financial Assistance Packages include the following: Eligibility
 a. Fee Installments For undergraduate students - only full-time students enrolled in morning programs, Note: The IBA reserves the right to verify all information provided by the
 Full-time students enrolled in undergraduate and graduate morning programs, who are facing constraints, and cannot manage to pay fees through ﬁnancial candidates. The FA Committee may also conduct personal visits during the
 who are facing short-term ﬁnancing constraints, and are unable to pay the entire assistance options of fee installments and Qarz-e-Hasna, may apply for need-based veriﬁcation process and may call students/parents for veriﬁcation of
 semester fee at the beginning of the semester can apply for the fee installment scholarships. documentation and to provide Income and expenses details.
 plan. It is mandatory for all ﬁnancial assistance awardees to apply for externally
 Applicants can apply for ﬁnancial assistance to cover their tuition fee for Fall and
 Installment for the semester fee Spring semesters. funded scholarships proposed by the IBA Financial Assistance ofﬁce. Failure
 to do so will result in the discontinuation of bridge ﬁnancing by IBA. The
 The students can be allowed to pay the fee in two or a maximum of three Financial assistance will be provided on a course basis up to the 8th semester of the student may also be required to fulﬁll the assessment process of a donor.
 installments and these installments must be paid within the same undergraduate program. The following terms and conditions apply to applicants of the Financial
 semester period. Assistance Program:
 Financial assistance will be provided for graduate students up to the duration of the
 The fee installment plan can be availed for the active semester fee only. course mentioned in the Program announcement except for the Executive MBA • Any student who directly approaches an IBA donor will face disciplinary action.
 Installment of fee arrears or defaults is not permissible under this option. (EMBA). • The Financial Assistance Committee may also conduct personal visits
 during the veriﬁcation process. If, after a physical veriﬁcation, there is
 Fee installment will be allowed after need assessment (i.e. subject to Graduate students must take a full load of courses and should not freeze any any change in the family's lifestyle compared to the declared income,
 approval). semester throughout their graduate studies. the Financial Assistance Award will be reversed for that particular
 Fee installments can be applied for here: semester. The student will be notiﬁed of the change in award status via
 https://www.iba.edu.pk/installments. The repetition of courses for grade improvement or otherwise and previously email.
 withdrawn courses are not covered under need-based scholarships. • The applicants may be required to appear for an interview if the
 Deferment of fee Financial Assistance Committee deems it necessary.
 In case a student does not pay his/her total fee within a particular semester Any student receiving Financial Assistance must maintain a minimum CGPA of 2.5. If
 then the Finance department shall send an intimation to the student to pay a student's CGPA falls below this threshold, their ﬁnancial assistance will be • The Financial Assistance Committee may also call students/parents for
 the outstanding dues. discontinued. veriﬁcation of documentation and Income and expenses details.
 Submission Process • If students fail to submit need-based scholarship forms (either fresh or
 The Director Financial Assistance may call the student and the parents (if renewal) within the stipulated dates, it will result in the cancellation of
 necessary) to evaluate the ﬁnancial situation and reach an amicable solution • Students are required to ﬁll out and submit the complete application form ﬁnancial assistance.
 for the fee recovery. The student may also be directed to avail other options in online. • The IBA will provide 'bridge ﬁnancing' till the applicants are successfully
 the Financial Assistance Packages.
 • A checklist of required supporting documents is included in the prescribed connected with the external donor (Government or private or Zakat).
 If no other options are available and the circumstances necessitate, the application form. The applicants are required to keep applying for the externally funded
 Director Financial Assistance may defer the fee payment to a certain date. scholarship (which is arranged by the IBA) till they are successfully
 • Students are requested to attach scanned copies of all required documents parked with a donor. Such students are also advised to keep checking
 If a student is unable to pay the fee in full, then as a ﬁrst step, the student with their applca tion. Incomplete applications will not be processed. IBA Financial Assistance page as well as their registered email accounts
 would have to submit an afﬁdavit on Rs.100 stamp paper for settlement by to be aware of available donor-funded scholarships and should apply for
 the deferred date. • CNICs for all family members who are above 18 years of age need to be submitted. the same. In case the applicant fails to apply for an externally funded
 scholarship, the Financial Assistance Committee will discontinue 'bridge
 The fee balance should be cleared within the same semester period before • Bridge Financing for New Admissions is available only at the time of admission ﬁnancing' for that student.
 the commencement of the ﬁnal exam. If the student fails to clear his for new students. • The IBA reserves the right to verify all information provided by the
 outstanding fee, the Finance department may stop him/her from appearing candidates.
 in the ﬁnal examination for that semester. • Existing students must apply again at the start of each academic year for a
 reassessment of bridge ﬁnancing. In case of providing false information:
 ƣؘ٪ vƲƲƫعƣƇȷƲƫ٪˚ǾƇǾƤǛƇǳ٪ƇȷȷǛȷɅƇǾƤƲ
 The IBA Financial Aid (FA) Program covers a wide range of need-based • Only applications submitted within the stipulated period will be considered for • The need-based ﬁnancial assistance award will be revoked and the
 ﬁnancial assistance in the form of scholarships. These need-based scholar- ﬁnancial assistance, including bridge ﬁnancing or scholarships. applicant will also be disqualiﬁed from applying for any loan / ﬁnancial
 ships are funded through Zakat and the valuable support of public and assistance in future.
 private sector donors. Upon submission of the need-based scholarship form • Before submitting the application and supporting documents, students may
 by the student, the IBA facilitates by providing 'bridge ﬁnancing' till the consult with their parents or guardians. • The student will have to refund all ﬁnancial assistance payments
 applicants are successfully connected with the public or private sector Assessment process received to date and / or bear the penalty equal to the total ﬁnancial
 scholarship donor and Zakat funds. The level of bridge ﬁnancing is assistance amount on an immediate basis.
 determined by the ﬁnancial need of the student which is assessed through • The submitted application forms and supporting documents are Misrepresentation or concealment of facts may lead to the
 the information provided in the ﬁnancial aid application formas submitted by scrutinized by the Financial Assistance (FA) Committee, comprising termination of admission from the Program.
 senior faculty and staff members. Students can send their ﬁnancial assistance queries at ﬁnancial-aid@iba.edu.pk
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 17
 Facilities at IBA
 Facilities and infrastructure
 Main Campus Breakout rooms
The IBA Main Campus is spread over 50 acres of land for educational facilities, a residential complex, and • Abdul Razzak Tabba Building: 2
boys and girls hostels. It is located within the premises of the University of Karachi and comprises around • Adamjee Academic Center: 8
30 classrooms, 8 seminar rooms, 5 computer labs, and 14 breakout rooms. These are in three academic • Society Ofﬁces in ASC: 4
buildings: Adamjee Academic Center, Abdul Razzak Tabba Building and Aman Center for Entrepreneurial
Development. All instructional spaces are fully equipped with the latest audio-visual and video conferenc- City Campus
ing facilities to boost the overall learning experience.
 The IBA City Campus is situated at Kayani Shaheed Road, Garden Road, and spreads over 3.5 acres. It
Other facilities at the Main Campus include: consists of:
 • Aman Tower
 Gani & Tayub Auditorium (seating capacity of 300) • Towﬁq H. Chinoy Administration Building
 Mian Abdullah Library • Faysal Bank Academic Block
 Alumni Students’ Center • Habib Bank Academic Building
 Khawar Butt Gymnasium for males and females • Library at Aman Tower
 Pepsi & Adamjee cafeterias • JS Auditorium (seating capacity of 400)
 TPL Event Hall • Gymnasium for males and females (situated in HBL Academic Block)
 UBL Sports Complex • Cafeteria Aman Tower, 5th ﬂoor
 Amphitheatre (seating capacity of 450) • Pepsi cafeteria (ground ﬂoor parking area)
 Sports facilities Existing facilities include 16 classrooms, 3 seminar halls, 2 lecture theatres, 1 VC room, 4 executive rooms for
The Department of Sports and Community Engagement (SP@CE), under the Ofﬁce of Registrar provides workshop and training sessions, and 5 computer/ICT laboratories. The campus houses the Centers for
a platform to the IBA Community, including potential students to not only maintain mental, physical, and Excellence in Executive Education (CEE), Journalism (CEJ), Information and Communication Technology
social well-being but to also hone their talents through sports activities. SP@CE has several coaches that (CICT), Center for Entrepreneurial Development (CED), Islamic Finance (CEIF), and Ofﬁce of Research
train students in various sports. Students are encouraged to participate in sports events and different local, Innovation and Commercialization (ORIC) at Aman Tower. Moreover, the HBL Building houses the incuba-
national, and international tournaments. tions of the Center for Entrepreneurial Development (CED), QEC and Alumni Affairs, Resource Mobilization
 and Corporate Relations (ARC) ofﬁces.
Outdoor sports facilities:
 • Cricket ground Health centre
 • Football ground Martin Dow collaborated with the IBA to provide quality healthare facilities for its students, faculty, and
 • Tennis courts staff. The clinic is accessible 6 days a week and provides the students with high quality medical facilities at
 • Basketball court the campus.
 • Volleyball, throwball court,
 • Netball and Handball court Cafeterias
 • Archery Main Campus
Indoor sports facilities: The IBA cafeterias at the Main and City campuses cater to the needs of the institute’s populace with
 • Table tennis hygienic meals, snacks, and refreshments that are available at affordable rates. Primary cafeteria facilities
 • Badminton court at the Main Campus can be found at the Alumni Students’ Center in the form of a Pepsi dining hall with an
 • Snooker, foosball, carrom, chess and ludo additional food outlet called Raptor. The cafeterias at the Adamjee Academic Center also offer their
Apart from these facilities we also facilitate and provide opportunities for professional sports persons in services to the students and faculty on working days. To facilitate the IBA community, the management
any sports, to participate at national and international levels. arranged some more food outlets:
 Gym Main Campus cafeterias
The facility of the gym is available for all IBA students, staff, faculty, and alumni at both Main and City • Coffee shop in the library
campuses. The separate gyms for girls and boys are well-equipped with different workout machines • Kiosks (Nawab Dynasty, Kabab Hut, and Soda Voda), a coffee shop inside the Mian Abdullah Library
enabling users to select a variety of workout plans. Moreover, the gym instructor educates users about City Campus cafeterias
ﬁtness and provides training to strengthen and maintain their physical health. Additionally, some basic • Cafeteria Aman Tower, 5th ﬂoor
gym equipment for the Visiting Faculty Residence (VFR), boys and girls’ hostels is also available. • Pepsi cafeteria (ground ﬂoor parking area)
 • Kiosks (The Crepray & Amanat canteen)
 Labs details
• NBP Building: 1 hardware lab ATM and banking facilities
• Aman CED Building: 3 computer labs, 1 ﬁnance lab, and 1 neuro lab To cater to the banking needs of students, faculty, and staff members, both campuses are equipped with
• Abdul Razzak Tabba Building: 1 computer lab, 1 BDA lab, 1 web science lab, 1 TRL lab, 1 robotic Lab, ATM machines installed by HBL. Furthermore, a few prominent bank branches are present within walking
 and 1 game lab distance of both campuses. IBA also installed ATMs for the Girls Hostel and Staff Town to facilitate the
• Adamjee Academic Center: 1 economy growth & forecasting lab Fauji community. An ATM for the boys hostel is also in the pipeline.
• Foundation Building: 1 physiology lab
---
 18 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Library
 IBA library promotes teaching, learning, and research by acquiring relevant resources and proactively
 offering new services essential to foster learning. New learning resources, such as books, case studies,
 electronic databases, and indigenous research support materials are added to the library's collections
 regularly, ensuring that the library remains a vital hub for knowledge acquisition and exploration.

 Spaces
 The libraries on both campuses provide a stimulating environment conducive to learning. The physical
 library facilities have been designed to accommodate contemporary learning styles, including Collabora-
 tive Commons, Individual study spaces, Research Commons, Faculty Commons, and a coffee shop.

 Resources
 Over 32 electronic databases are a part of subscription, allowing campus-wide and remote access to a
 diverse collection of full-text multidisciplinary digital materials such as e-Journals, e-Books, case studies,
 data sets and industry-related research analysis reports. Moreover, around 77,000 print volumes are
 available in the library’s physical holdings, with an average of 1,500 new titles purchased each year. In
 addition to these digital and printed resources, the library also manages iRepository, the digital repository
 to showcase the institutional archive, research, history, and accomplishments.

 Services
 The library strives to offer its patrons a diverse range of innovative, academic, and research support
 services supported by cutting-edge technologies. The library services are intended to supplement lifelong
 learning. To learn more about the library services, visit http://library.iba.edu.pk

 Information discovery & retrieval
 The library utilizes a robust interface that simpliﬁes information retrieval and provides a uniﬁed search
 tool to browse the entire catalog. Its Discovery feature aggregates results from various resources on one
 page for ease in searching of relevant information sources. Additionally, there is an easy-to-use interface
 for accessing and exploring all the digital journals the library subscribes to.

 Research support, engagement and outreach
 The library supports research with referencing consultations, database orientations, and on-demand
 documents. It engages the academic community through training sessions, an active Research
 Commons, and events such as documentary screenings, displays for special days, and recognition of top
 readers. This approach enhances the research environment and strengthens the library's role in academic
 scholarship at IBA.

 Digital literacy
 With an active involvement in conducting Information Literacy and Information Management Handling
 workshops, alongside regular orientation sessions for students and faculty, the library helps our users
 make informed decisions with all information. These sessions ensure that users are equipped with the
 necessary skills to navigate the academic resources available to them effectively.

 Digital scholarship & publishing
 Through IBA’s Institutional Repository, iRepository, the library archives, and showcases institutional
 research, history, student scholarship, faculty publications, and events. It ensures global accessibility to
 these materials, highlighting the institution’s impact. The library also supports digital archiving and
 publishing for the Business Review journal..
 Connect with us: https://library.iba.edu.pk/
 library@iba.edu.pk
 https://www.facebook.com/ibalibrary/
 https://www.instagram.com/iba_library/
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 19

 On Campus Accommodation - Hostels for Boys and Girls
 Overview Boys hostel
 Boys hostel Girls hostel Girls hostel
 The IBA Karachi provides hostel facilities to its full-time, regular students from outside Karachi. Two Capacity: 469 Capacity: 266
 hostels, one each for female and male students, are located within the premises of the University of Single Rooms: 435 Single Rooms: 06
 Karachi. Both the hostels are secure spaces, guarded 24/7 by trained security professionals and through
 CCTV surveillance. Shared Rooms: 07 Shared Rooms: 135
 The hostels are spread over an area of 2.5 acres, surrounded by lush green lawns, trees, and gardens. Dormitories: 10
 Hostels’ design amalgamates the needs of modern urban living with sustainability, while vast and open
 corridors enable a pleasant, properly ventilated living space.

The IBA hostel life is a testimony to IBA’s diversity and inclusivity. Residents come from across Pakistan
and other countries and bring with them diverse cultural, economic, social, and religious backgrounds to
share a similar bond, which is their association with the prestigious institution and with each other. The
IBA hostels provide an atmosphere where students can learn and develop life-long associations while
enjoying a comfortable setting.

Residents’ security is a top priority for the institute and the hostels are guarded 24/7 by professional
security personnel, with the entrance and exit points under constant CCTV surveillance. The IBA Girls
hostel is a secure, residential complex for the institute’s female students, managed by a female superin-
tendent and a resident warden. The hostel is located near the IBA campus with the facility of a regular
shuttle service.

For queries, please contact:
Dr. Mohsin Sadaqat Mr. Mujahid Hussain Detho
Superintendent Warden
mohsin@iba.edu.pk mhussain@iba.edu.pk
Ext. 3053 Ext. 2015




 To apply for accommodation, click here: https://onlineadmission.iba.edu.pk

 The hostels’ residents are encouraged to live like one big family, helping each other wherever required
 and making hostels a home away from home. The hostel management makes tremendous efforts to
 provide the residents with a clean, hygienic and congenial environment to facilitate this brief but integral
 part of their professional journey. Discipline and compassion for fellows are two core values that the
 hostel management encourages and inculcates among students. The hostels foster a sense of ownership
 among residents, enabling them to create memories that they cherish for years. The hostel management
 also encourages the residents to participate in numerous cultural and social activities that are organized
 by the Hostel Society. Some of these include the annual welcome dinner for the hostel freshman batch,
 Eid-Milad-un-Nabi, Basant and Diwali celebrations, cricket and football tournaments, and the annual
 farewell dinner for the hostel graduating batch.

 Facilities
 All rooms are equipped with a smart wardrobe, study table with drawer, and a single bed with a
 closet compartment for additional storage. Below are the details of the facilities at the hostels: 205
 1. Air-conditioned common rooms and TV lounges
 2. Indoor gyms
 3. Game room
 4. Badminton court
 5. Laundry room
 6. Multi-purpose rooms for extra-curricular activities and green spaces for outdoor sports and
 other activities
 7. Air-conditioned dining halls
 8. High-speed internet facility
 9. Prayer room
 10. Subsidized laundry services (for boys hostel)
 11. Chilled water dispensers (potable water)
 12. 24-hour tuck shop/ vending machine
 13. On-campus healthcare facility
 14. On-campus mental wellness counselor
---
 Student Services
 Career Development Centre
The IBA Career Development Center (CDC) is a comprehensive resource centre dedicated to
empowering students throughout their academic journey. We provide essential support for career
exploration, development, and placement. Our services encompass career counseling, internship
facilitation, employability skill enhancement, and graduate school admissions guidance. By forging
strong partnerships with industry and academia, the CDC bridges the gap between classroom learning
and professional success, helping students identify and pursue fulﬁlling career paths.
The primary objective of the CDC is to guide members of the IBA community to identify, understand,
select, and achieve their career and higher education goals through programs and interventions that
provide learning opportunities tailored to their individual needs.
Explore the CDC's suite of services designed to empower IBA students:
1. Personalized Career Guidance: Our career advisors offer one-on-one consultations to help students
make informed career decisions and map their ideal career paths. Appointments are scheduled through
the job portal.
2. IBA Job Portal: This powerful online platform connects students and alumni with potential employers.
It features a graduate directory where students and alumni can create proﬁles and access job/internship
opportunities. Employers can post vacancies, view proﬁles, and shortlist candidates. Over 1300 companies
actively utilize the portal.
3. Corporate Connect Series: Partnering with faculty, the CDC organizes workshops and panel
discussions featuring industry guest speakers. These sessions provide students with practical insights,
bridging the gap between classroom learning and real-world practices. Faculty can easily request guest
speakers through an online system.
 20 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25


10. Annual Career Fair: This ﬂagship event connects potential employers with emerging leaders. Students
gain valuable networking and career exploration opportunities by interacting with over 150 companies.
 BUROUE AK Career Developmi H"
m Center
 Pivetec

"ison IBA SOFCOM
 AREER
~EBM folio3
 FAIR,24
 PSW
 PLATINUM SPONSOR
Sicc groupm MTR^


 SHMACONSUITIN

 LJe BRONZE SPONSORS
 Afcs un
 TAFS
 CHNOCOG

 4. Career Exploration Excursions: Throughout the year, the CDC organizes ﬁeld trips to companies,
 enabling students to learn about different industries, network with employees, explore career
 opportunities, and tour facilities. Additionally, under ‘Study Trips’, the CDC facilitates faculty-led industry
 visits tailored to speciﬁc course needs. sccndard
 chcrtered
 5. Learning Resource Hub: This new online platform focuses on experiential learning beyond the ACCESS: cNIOJR
 classroom. It offers a comprehensive database of seminars, interactive talks, virtual and on-site training, CeNTOJ? ABILITY:
 skills-based workshops, and real-time simulation archives, equipping students with essential skills for EDM REFRS:
 today's workforce.

 6. Social Impact Internships: All undergraduate students complete six weeks of social work through the 8 ACCESS
 Responsible Citizen Initiative (RCI) program. Students partner with NGOs, community-based ABILITE
 CARER
 organizations, or charities during their summers. The CDC has established extensive partnerships to 82 82
 facilitate these placements. 64 3
 7. Corporate Internship Program: A mandatory program for all undergraduate and non-BBA, MBA
 students. Undergraduates complete internships before their senior year, while MBA students complete
 them after their ﬁrst year. The CDC facilitates connections between students and recruiters, while also
 helping students ﬁnd suitable opportunities.

 8. Streamlined Internship Documentation: Following their internship, students submit required
 documents (report, certiﬁcate, and supervisor evaluation) through a convenient online application
 system.

 9. Online Recommendation Request System: Junior students can request general or customized
 recommendation letters for internships through the Student Facilitation System.
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 21
11. On-Campus Recruitment: Throughout the year, the CDC hosts multiple recruitment drives where
employers visit IBA campuses to conduct company presentations, interviews, assessments, and other
activities. These events typically occur from January to May, targeting graduating students.

12. Global Grad Explore Program: The CDC empowers students with information and resources for
postgraduate studies. This program includes informative sessions featuring guest speakers, faculty
members, and alumni. Sessions cover program options, admission requirements, funding opportunities,
and career prospects. The CDC also collaborates with organizations like Education USA and IDP to
strengthen its counseling services.

13. Experiential Learning Projects (ELP): A mandatory four-month program for ﬁnal-semester BBA and BS
Accounting & Finance students. Working in groups, students conduct research, analyze issues, and develop
solutions, gaining practical industry knowledge and exploring potential organizations. Visit
https://elp.iba.edu.pk for more information.
14. Mentorship Programs:
initiatives: IBA leverages its strong alumni network (over 13,000) through two ﬂagship Terminal 2 4
 Parvaaz Mentorship Program: A 4-month program pairing ﬁnal year students with industry experts Eduddiion
for personalized guidance.

 Maverick Mentorship Program: On-campus events where students can meet and connect with
mentors one-on-one. These programs assist students in exploring career options and formulating person-
alized career plans. Gop
15. Mock Interviews: The CDC provides on-campus mock interviews, tailored simulations of real job
interviews. These exercises, facilitated by industry experts, offer students valuable experience, and help
them improve interview skills.

16. Graduate Proﬁles: The CDC publishes annual ‘Proﬁle Books’ on the IBA Job Portal, showcasing graduat-
ing students' proﬁles to potential employers. Graduates can update their proﬁles regularly for optimal
visibility during recruitment.

17. Digital Media Presence: The CDC maintains active digital platforms (Facebook group and page,
LinkedIn page, and program-speciﬁc WhatsApp groups) to keep students and alumni updated on career
development announcements, internships, jobs, and other relevant information. Tup

To connect with us, visit the following networks:
Facebook Page: https://www.facebook.com/ibacdc.khi/
Facebook Group (restricted to IBA students and alumni): https://www.facebook.com/groups/ibacdc
Email: cdc@iba.edu.pk | teamcdc@iba.edu.pk
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ibacdc
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ibacdc/
Website: https://cdc.iba.edu.pk
---
 22 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

 Ofﬁce of Student Affairs (OSA)
 Dean’s Message
 As Dean of Student Affairs (DSA), I am delighted to welcome you all to the Institute of Business Administration (IBA), Karachi. I am very excited to have you all
 on campus and look forward to getting to know you as you get connected to the IBA community. As the DSA, my role is to ensure t hat your non-academic
 needs are met during your time here. My Ofﬁce plays an integral role in community engagement, talent, and skill development, an d student leadership
 development; students are encouraged to participate in student-led clubs, societies, and the IBA Student Government (ISG). The International Resource center
 (IRC) partners with international universities to provide students with exchange opportunities and other international collabor ations to gain international
 exposure. By providing opportunities for students to get involved, develop new skills, and make a positive impact in their comm unity, our aim is to enhance the
 overall student experience at the IBA.

 We also provide support to students through health and wellness programs and diversity and accessibility services and programs, to foster a safe, welcoming,
 and inclusive environment at the IBA, where students can grow both academically and personally.

As Dean Student Affairs, I also believe in enriching your university experience by encouraging you to participate in leadership development, coaching, and peer programs to foster learning,
growth, and community development. You may face challenges, and that is what the Ofﬁce of Student Affairs is here for - to supp ort you and connect you to faculty, staff, and campus
resources. What is close to my heart is fostering a culture of inclusion, mutual respect, and acceptance amongst the IBA community.

Looking forward to meeting you all for an engaging and diverse experience! Wishing you all the best!

Maheen Ghauri
Dean - Student Affairs
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 23

Ofﬁce of Student Affairs (OSA)
 ǌ˚ƤƲ٪ȉǌ٪¯ɅɍƫƲǾɅ٪ǌǌƇǛȯȷ٪ح¯خ
 The Ofﬁce of Student Affairs at IBA is dedicated to creating an
 engaging and diverse experience for every student at the IBA Karachi.
 The Ofﬁce plays an integral role in community engagement, talent
 and skill development, and student leadership development. It
 provides students with opportunities to extend their passions, talents,
 and competencies beyond academia by participating in curricular,
 co-curricular, and service-oriented activities. The Ofﬁce proactively
 responds and is adaptable to student-centric needs, and evolving
 trends and priorities.

 Student Affairs is also committed to fostering a culture of inclusion,
 mutual respect, and acceptance with respect to diversity. It plays a
 pivotal role in promoting a safe, welcoming, and inclusive
 environment and campus life for students, especially for those who
 may be differently-abled or may have special needs – our job is to
 support students’ individual and group needs and to endorse the
 value of a diverse society.
 The Ofﬁce of Student Affairs is a one-stop solution to address all
 student needs and queries, to direct them to the relevant schools and
 student support ofﬁces, including facilitating them with academic,
 career, mental health, or general counseling as well.

 For details, please visit: https://osa.iba.edu.pk/

 The student service and support ofﬁces that fall under the Student
 Affairs umbrella are:



ǌ˚ƤƲ٪ȉǌ٪¯ɅɍƫƲǾɅ٪¯ȉƤǛƲɅǛƲȷ٪ح¯¯خ
The Ofﬁce of Student Societies (OSS) believes in creating a culture of
inclusiveness and promoting self-discovery and diversity through
multiple student activities. OSS encourages students to try out new
things and participate in activities that enrich their lives outside of
academics. Through these co-/extracurricular activities, students get
involved in campus life and get to know themselves and others. The
Ofﬁce of Student Societies plays an integral part in the holistic
development of the students that happens when they participate in
different activities happening on and off campus. There are 30+
student run societies that work under the umbrella of the Ofﬁce of
Student Societies. Through these societies, OSS sets a benchmark of
commitment, trust, hard work, and leadership for all students to
follow. The Ofﬁce of Student Societies caters to all domains of interests
that a student could possibly pursue, and if a club/society is not
available, students can request OSS and a committee will look into it.

For details, please visit: https://osa.iba.edu.pk/oss/
IBA Student Government (ISG)
The IBA Student Government (ISG) is a representative body that serves
as the voice for the student body. Comprised of elected
representatives from each of the three schools at the IBA, the student
government plays a crucial role in shaping the student experience by
advocating for the needs and concerns of the students to the
administration and faculty.

The student government also engages with the student body and
organizes various events and initiatives throughout the year, including
the graduating batch farewell and incoming students welcome.

 For details, please visit: https://osa.iba.edu.pk/oss/isg.php

 af International Resource Center (IRC)
 The International Resource Center (IRC) under the umbrella of the
 Ofﬁce of Student Affairs (OSA) provides opportunities to students to
 extend their learning by complementing their academic experience
 with international exposure. The IRC team connects and partners with
 international universities to offer students exchange opportunities to
 experience globalized classroom content, develop employability and
 transferable skills, and expand international and cultural networks.
 The IRC also offers a range of services to facilitate and support
 students in going abroad for summer and semester exchange
 programs, conferences, international competitions, and more.

 The IRC at IBA also invites students, professionals, and academics from
 diverse ﬁelds to attend IBA courses and programs, conduct research,
 and be a part of the diverse IBA community. IRC promotes interna-
 tional academic excellence by strengthening transnational education,
 student, faculty, and staff exchanges, international student recruit-
 ment, research and entrepreneurship collaborations.

 For further details: https://osa.iba.edu.pk/irc/
---
 24 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

Ofﬁce of Student Affairs (OSA)
 ǌ˚ƤƲ٪ȉǌ٪%ǛɥƲȯȷǛɅɬؙ٪ƤƤƲȷȷǛƣǛǳǛɅɬؙ٪ƇǾƫ٪UǾƤǳɍȷǛȉǾ٪ح%Uخ٪ Student Employment and Volunteering
 ODAI believes and works on the premise that every student is unique, Students are offered opportunities to work part-time on both campuses during the semester and the summer. They can be employed in
 belonging to diverse backgrounds. It aims to create an inclusive various departments (administrative, academic, or support service departments). These can be both paid (student employment) or unpaid
 environment, accepting every individual’s different background, (volunteering).
 characteristics, and differences in perspective and demographics,
 which include race, age, religion, disability, and gender, as well as skills, The number of work hours per week differs based on the nature of employment. Student Affairs also helps students in search for volunteering
 experiences, and abilities. It aims to eliminate discrimination, break opportunities outside IBA as well.
 down barriers, and facilitate and ensure equal opportunities and
 access for all students. Student employment and volunteering allow students to develop their professional and soft skills and academic expertise. It als o teaches
 them life skills, including building a sense of responsibility and work ethic.
 For further details: https://osa.iba.edu.pk/odai/
 Tan
 Student Leadership, Coaching, and Peer Programs AMAN-CHD)
 To enrich the university experience, students can participate in
 leadership development, coaching or peer programs that foster YOUR
 learning, growth, community development, and peer support. These
 students can attend workshops, seminars, and programs that will
 build their skills to motivate, inﬂuence, and guide other students at
 IBA. Students can realize their potential through such programs, and
 provide support to students experiencing challenges, connecting
 them to faculty and staff, and to campus resources.
 53
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 25

 Activities Studio
MuHL
---
 26 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

Activities Studio
 aka
 UGRAD-Pakistan
 ashnaton DC
 BA
---
School of Business Studies
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 28

School of Business Studies (SBS)
The Institute of Business Administration, (IBA) is one of the most prestigious higher education institutions located in the cit y of Karachi, the ﬁnancial hub of Pakistan. The School of Business Studies (SBS) is the largest and
ﬂagship School in IBA. SBS is also a leading business school within Pakistan with a state-of-the-art campus that follows the be st international standards and offers faculty and students a unique learning and teaching
experience along with well-equipped spaces conducive for teamwork and creativity. SBS is actively pursuing AACSB accreditation and has already achieved a key milestone in the AACSB journey. SBS faculty comprises
distinguished experts across a variety of business disciplines and hold doctorates from world-renowned universities. The school offers a wide range of programs in different management disciplines to train a new
generation of high-potential executives.

 Dean’s Message
 Welcome to the School of Business Studies (SBS), IBA. I am proud to share with you the factors that make our school the right place to receive an unrivaled business education in Pakistan.
 Our location in Karachi provides us an outstanding backdrop to leverage our distinctively talented student body and world-class faculty to liaise with corporate Pakistan and numerous multina-
 tionals, situated in the metropolis. The IBA Karachi has ingrained its mark in the history of Pakistan through its strong alumn i network, making it a legacy of the IBA. As Dean, SBS, I feel privileged
 to lead the school which is on a trajectory of nurturing many more graduates who will leave their mark around the world in all walks of life.

 I am ﬁlled with great optimism about our future and feel delighted in afﬁrming that we are entering a new era where we are setting out to embark on an ambitious journey. Once SBS secures
 AACSB accreditation, it will place us among the upper echelon of business schools worldwide. Consolidating that our emphasis would be to secure further prestigious accreditations globally to
 validate the good things we do. We are also striving for SBS to feature prominently in the global league tables. Furthermore, t he SBS will actively pursue international academic collaborations
 with top business schools which will create meaningful exchange opportunities for students and faculty members.

 We live in an era of disruptions, where conventional methods of teaching, research and industry best practices are becoming red undant. Globally and locally, such disruptions are pressing
 business schools to engage in thoughtful leadership and demand agility to stay relevant. The SBS is very student-centric and provides a holistic student experience.
 Dr. Abdullah Z. Sheikh With a market-driven curriculum across our programs, we differentiate ourselves with a powerful combination of top academic tal ent from around Pakistan, a vibrant business community at
 our doorstep and a world-class faculty aiming to make a difference. We aim to engage with our alumni robustly to further deepen our industry linkages. The key focus of the school is on teaching
effectiveness and impactful intellectual contributions. The ethos of innovation, entrepreneurship and commercialization remain at the heart of the process where faculty, students and corporate leaders engage purposefully to
create unique constellations to solve indigenous and global challenges.

 Overview of Departments
Department of Accounting and Law Department of Finance
The programs offered at the Department of Accounting and Law provide conceptual and practical The Department of Finance offers a variety of courses to inculcate ﬁnancial decision-making skills in students. The
knowledge that enables our graduates to successfully ﬁnd solutions and navigate their way in today's department is dedicated to developing and maintaining a curriculum integrating information technology, ethics
challenging market. The department’s faculty, who are professional accountants, and lawyers with extensive and sustainability. The diverse faculty of the department contributes to impactful research and regularly engages
practical experience, focus on imparting contemporary knowledge through practical problems and cases. with the business community for experiential learning of the students, knowledge creation and continuous
 improvement of the curriculum.
Department of Management Department of Marketing
With an emphasis on preparing students to attain profound critical thinking and analytical skills in the ﬁeld
of management, the Department of Management endeavors to impart theoretical and practical knowledge Our students are propelled from the basic to more critical and specialist levels at the Department of Marketing. The
in the specialized areas of strategy, organization, operations management, entrepreneurship, and leadership. courses help students learn about the traditional and the most recent advances in marketing using local and
 international case studies, simulations, and other experiential exercises. Students can connect marketing theory
 with practice and are prepared for a career across any industry.
---
 29 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Programs on Offer School of Business Studies
 Bachelor of Business Bachelor of Science (BS) Master of Business Bachelor of Science (BS) Master of Science (MS)
 S. No. Information Executive MBA Islamic
 Administration (BBA) Accounting and Finance Administration (MBA) Marketing Banking Management Finance
 and Finance

 A minimum of 16 years
 A minimum of 16 years of qualiﬁcation out of education
 Higher secondary school certiﬁcate A minimum of 16 years of education of (culminating in BS /
 (any group (Culminating in BS / BBA / BE which 4 years should have been spent in A minimum of 16 years of education BBA / BE or equivalent
 or an A minimum of 16 years of degree) out of which 4
 Higher secondary school with 60% marks) Equivalent degree) out of which 4 HEC recognized university/degree education (culminating in BS / BBA / (culminating in BS / BBA / BE or years should have been
 certiﬁcate with a minimum of or years should have been spent in an awarding BE or equivalent degree) out of which equivalent degree) out of which 4 spent in an HEC
 65% marks A level (minimum of 1 ‘B’ and 2 ‘C’s) years should have been spent in an recognized
 or in 3 principal subjects HEC recognized university/degree institution with: 4 years should have been spent in an HEC recognized university/degree university/degree
 A levels (minimum of 2 ‘B’s and 1 ‘C’) in or awarding institute with 2.5 CGPA on A minimum of 60% aggregate marks HEC recognized university/degree awarding institute with 2.5 CGPA on
 3 principal subjects a scale of 4.00 or 60% marks in the (Percentage is only considered if CGPA is awarding institute with 2.5 CGPA on a awarding institute with
 or American high school diploma last degree (whichever is applicable). not available) scale of 4.00 or 60% marks in the last a scale of 4.00 or 60% marks in the 2.5 CGPA on a scale of
 American high school diploma (minimum of 80%) Percentage is only considered if or degree (whichever is applicable). last degree (whichever is 4.00 or 60% marks in
 1 Admission minimum of 80% or an international or CGPA is not available. (Candidates applicable). Percentage is only the last degree
 requirement baccalaureate An international baccalaureate a minimum of 2.50 CGPA on a scale of Percentage is only considered if CGPA considered if CGPA is not available. (whichever is
 (minimum 25/45) (minimum 24/45) with work experience will be 4.00 is not available. All equivalency claims shall be applicable).
 preferred). (as applicable) Percentage is only
 Note: All international and evaluated by the HEC.
 certiﬁcate/degree holders must Note: All international Note: All international considered if CGPA is
 provide an equivalency certiﬁcate signiﬁcant managerial experience is Note: All international Note: All international not available.
 from certiﬁcate/degree holders certiﬁcate/degree mandatory certiﬁcate/degree holders must
 IBCC/HEC. must provide an equivalency holders must provide an equivalency provide an equivalency certiﬁcate certiﬁcate/degree holders must Note: All international
 certiﬁcate from certiﬁcate from IBCC/HEC. Note: All international certiﬁcate/degree from IBCC/HEC. provide an equivalency certiﬁcate certiﬁcate/degree
 IBCC/HEC. holders must provide an equivalency from IBCC/HEC. holders must provide
 certiﬁcate from IBCC/HEC. an equivalency
 certiﬁcate from
 IBCC/HEC.

 English English English
 English composition English composition (MCQs) Business English (MCQs) English composition (MCQs) composition composition Composition
 2 Aptitude test (MCQs) English composition (MCQs) English comprehension (essay Case study Mathematics (MCQs) (MCQs) (MCQs) (MCQs)
 component Mathematics (MCQs) Mathematics (MCQs) writing skills) Applied Mathematics (MCQs) Essay writing Mathematics Mathematics Mathematics
 Mathematics (MCQs) (MCQs) (MCQs) (MCQs)
 Essay writing Finance (MCQs)
 3 Aptitude test - SAT-I SAT-I GMAT/GRE GMAT/GRE gene GRE ral and GMAT GRE general and GMAT GRE General or GMAT
 difﬁculty level exam
 Minimum score of 650
 Minimum 600 score in GMAT/ 160 in quantitative and 150 in verbal in the Quantitative GRE
 4 Aptitude test Refer to the next page Refer to the next page Minimum 600 score in GMAT/ 160 in 160 in quantitative and 150 in verbal GRE 160 in quantitative and GRE (int’l) General, 160 in
 exemption** quantitative and 150 in verbal GRE (int’l) 150 in verbal GRE (int'l) 600 score in GMAT Quantitative section of
 (int’l) Revised GRE General,
 OR 600 score in GMAT
 5 Student proﬁle Avg. age: 19 Avg. age: 19 Avg. age: mid 20s Avg. age: mid 30’s Avg. age: mid 20s Avg. age: mid 20s Avg. age: mid 20s
 Avg. work experience: 7 years

 40 courses, 40 courses, 126 18 courses, 1 MS core and
 128 credit hours, credit hours, project, 60 credit 24 courses, 6 core courses, elective courses:
 responsible citizen initiative responsible citizen hours, 72 credit hours, 4 electives, 12 courses, 36
 6 Graduation (RCI), initiative (RCI), duration 1 project, 30 credit hours, credit hours, 6 core courses 7 courses, 3 electives,
 corporate internship corporate 24 months, comprehensive exam thesis/project, Research thesis 4 electives (30 credit hours),
 internship (corporate 6 credit hours or Project Thesis/Project Thesis/project
 internship for Paper*: 6 credit (6 credit hours)
 non-BBA hours
 Personal effectiveness course Personal effectiveness course (PE) background - -
 (PE)
 Click here to view the fee Click here to Click here to view Click here to view the
 structure view the fee the fee structure fee structure
 Click here to view the fee structure Click here to view the fee structure Click here to view the fee structure Click here to view the fee structure structure https://www.iba.ed
 7 Fees https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee - https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee - https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee-structure.php https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee- https://www.iba. u.pk/fee- https://www.iba.edu.pk/
 structure.php structure.php structure.php structure.php edu.pk/fee- structure.php fee-structure.php
 structure.php
 8 Classes start August August August August and January August August and January August August
 9 Duration 4 years full time 4 years full time 2 years 2.5 years 1.5 years 2 years 1.5 years 1.5 years
 10 Campus main/city main/city main main Main main city city
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 30

 BBA & BSAF program – SAT I


 x A score of 600 (out of 800) in
 Mathematics
 x A score of 600 (out of 800) in Evidence-Based
 Reading and Writing
 x
 x Total of 1270 is required
 x Scores of Essays are not required for the
 purposes of admission, however may
 *Criteria for IBA preferably be submitted for placement
 Aptitude in English courses subsequent to
Test exemptions admission

 BBA program – ACT
 x A Composite Score of 29 (out of 36)
 x An English / Writing Score of 25 (out of 36)

 BSAF, BSCS, BSECO and BSEM program – ACT
 x A Composite Score of 28 (out of 36)
 x Score of English / Writing is not required for the
 purposes of admission, however, may preferably
 be submitted for placement in English courses
 subsequent to admission
---
 31 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA)
 The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) is a full-time 132 credit hours program comprising of four Eligibility criteria
 years of rigorous education which allows the student to have a broader view of the business world. The For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 29-30.
 academic program does not only emphasize the essentials of business subjects, but also introduces
 students to the basic knowledge in Social Sciences, Mathematics and Computer Sciences during their Program learning competencies
 freshman and sophomore years. All BBA students are required to enroll for Personal Effectiveness, a series
 of mandatory non-credit courses which build and enhance soft skills and help in personality development 1. Knowledge of Business & Management
 of students. Students will be able to demonstrate a foundational understanding of core business functions.
 Although there are no formally labelled Specializations, students can opt for any combination of electives 2. Critical Thinking and Problem-Solving
 from Marketing, Business Analytics, Accounting, Finance, Supply Chain, Human Resource Management Students will be able to critically analyze and evaluate information in a business context.
 (HRM), and Entrepreneurship. Based on feedback from the alumni and human resource representatives of 3. Communication and Teamwork
 major corporations, the IBA has included experiential learning into the curriculum. Students must Students will be able to communicate effectively and collaborate within teams to achieve desired
 undergo two internships (one as a responsible citizen initiative in an NGO and another in a corporate objectives.
 organization) and a semester long experiential learning project (ELP), which is in the form of a project
 awarded by corporate clients, an on-the-job training in the real business environment. This allows the 4. Ethical Awareness and Social Responsibility
 students to network with their future employers and introduces them to the challenges of the real Students will be able to analyze ethical dilemmas and understand legal and regulatory frameworks in
 business world. business.

 5. Technology and Information Literacy
 Students will be able to leverage technology and information resources to analyze data and communicate
 Program structure effectively in a business context.
 Breakdown of credit hours
 Time to completion 4 years Course category Courses Credit hours
 Semesters 8 General Education Courses 12 30
 Core courses 30 (84 Credit hours) Interdisciplinary Courses 4 12
 Elective courses 13 (39 Credit hours) Business Core Courses 14 42
 Experiential Learning Project (ELP) 1 (6 Credit hours) Business Elective Courses 30
 10
 Corporate Internship (6-8 weeks) 1 (3 Credit hours) Free Electives 3 9
 Total courses 43+ELP+Internship Total Required Coursework 123
 43
 Total Credit Hours 132 Corporate Internship 3
 Responsible Citizen Initiative (RCI) 1 Experiential Learning Project 6
 Personal effectiveness program (Non-Credit) 10 hours Total Credit Hours 132
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 32
 Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA)
 Semester-wise sequence of courses
 Freshman Semester - 1 Course code Credit hours Pre-requisite Course type Junior Semester 5 Course code Credit hours Pre -requisite Course type
 1 Management Accounting ACC381 3 - B
 1 Microeconomics ECO101 3 - Allied MKT201
 2 Psychology Business of - General Education BUS101 2 Business
 Research 2 Methods of MKT301 3 MKT202 Business
 Introduction to Computer CSE103 3
 General - 3 Applications 3 Financial Management FIN401 3 FIN201 Business
 4 Islamic Studies SSC152 - General Education 2 Production and Operation
 5 Speech Communication - HUM201 General Education 3 4 Management MGT510 3 FIN506 Business
 6 Introduction Statistics to - MTS102 General Education 3 5 Business Elective 2 - 3 - Business
 7 Education Introduction to Philosophy General - HUM102 2
 Semester - 2 Course code Credit hours Pre-requisite Course type Semester - 6 Course code Credit hours Pre-requisite Course type
 1 Macroeconomics ECO111 - Allied 3 1 Marketing Issues in Pakistan MKT401 3 MKT201 Business
 Education General 2 - Introduction to Astronomy MTS152 3 2 Business Elective 3 - 3 - Business
- 3 Business Communication MGT211 3 3 Business Elective 4 - 3 - Business
 General - 4 Pakistan History SSC153 2 FIN201,
 5 Calculus 1 - Allied MTS101 3
 cation General 6 - Entrepreneurship BUS103 2 MKT201,
 Education 7 General - Business Ethics BUS102 2 4 Managerial Policy MGT430 3 ACC201, Business
 MGT 221
 Sophomore Semester - 3 Course code Credit hours Pre-requisite Course type 5 Business Elective 5 - 3 - Business
 1 Principle of Accounting ACC111 3 - Business
 BUS 101
 GT221 2 Organizational Behaviour Business Semester - 7 Course code Credit hours Pre-requisite Course type
 3 Introduction to Business Finance FIN201 3
 - Business 1 Business Elective 6 - 3 - Business
 3 MTS202 4 Statistical Inference 2 Business Elective 7 - 3 - Business
 siness MKT201 5 Principle of Marketing 3 Business Elective 8 - 3 - Business
 4 Business Elective 9 - 3 - Business
 Elective 5 Free - 3 - -
 Semester -4 Course code Credit hours Pre-requisite Course type
 Business Math and Linear
 MTS101 1 3 Algebra MTS212 Allied Semester - 8 Course code Credit hours Pre-requisite Course type
 Financial Institution and
 usiness 2 3 Market FIN301 Elective 1 Free - 3 - -
 3 Business Elective 1 - 3 - Business Elective 2 Free - 3 - -
 4 Business Law LAW205 3 - Business 3 Business Elective 10 - 3 - Business
 Human Resource MGT-221
 5 Management HRM401
 Business 3
 6 Financial Accounting ACC201 3 Business ACC111
---
Business electives
Students select 7 courses as business electives. These may be chosen from any of the courses offered by the
Business School that are not core courses for the BBA program or their equivalents. These elective courses
therefore include, courses offered by Finance department (usually course codes beginning with FIN),
Accounting and Law department (beginning with ACC and LAW), Marketing department (usually beginning
with MKT) and the Management department (usually beginning with MGT, HRM, ENT and SCM), subject to
fulﬁllment of pre-requisites. List of course offerings differ semester to semester and students can ﬁnd the
current offerings on the website or with the relevant program ofﬁces.

Free electives
Students must choose three electives as free elective courses from any discipline offered by any school at the
IBA. These courses must not be the same or equivalents of the core courses in the program. List of course
offerings differ semester to semester and students can ﬁnd the current offerings on the website or with the
relevant program ofﬁces.

Experiential learning and lifelong learning mindset
The curriculum of the BBA program is enriched with experiential learning opportunities and activities aimed
at developing lifelong learning mindset. A full-ﬂedged personal effectiveness seminar series is included as part
of the curriculum that every student must complete as a mandatory requirement for graduation. Many
courses include guest speaker sessions from industry experts. Some courses also include formal corporate
visits. Furthermore, term projects also require students to study, analyze and document a real-life business
problem and help them connect with the industry. Some courses in management require students to launch
a startup as part of the course project. This helps the students to put theory into practice. There are various
success stories as a few of these startups are now working as well-developed businesses.
 33 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Term projects with societal impacts
Many courses have the element of term project. Some of these projects also have an objective of social
contribution apart from providing an experiential learning avenue. Recent examples include career
counselling programs for school students from underprivileged background and organizing events that
have positive social impact under the management courses.


Use of technology and innovative pedagogy
The curriculum encourages use of latest technology applications in its courses related to different business
functions. These emerging technologies are continuously identiﬁed through market trends and are made
part of the curricula after certain deliberations through the course review process. Some courses in BBA
program integrating software teaching include, Methods in Business Research (SPSS), Financial
Management, Financial Modelling (Advanced Excel), Introduction to Marketing Analytics (R and R studio),
Data Manipulation and Visualization (Power BI), Accounting Information System with SAP and Financial
Econometrics (E views).
Another way the program fosters technology exposure to its students is through the integration of
technology in pedagogy. The use of games and simulations, course projects, video case studies and
blended learning (online courses like Coursera) require students to keep in constant touch with recent
technology platforms.






 Internships
 To provide students with an early exposure to the business world, a formal corporate internship must be
 carried out after completing the 6th semester (i.e. after completion of all the courses till 6th semester).
 However, students joining from the spring semester can be provided an exception to carry out their corporate
 internships during the subsequent summer after their 5th semester. These internships are a mandatory
 requirement for graduation. Career Development Center at IBA coordinates for the necessary requirements for
 the internship.

 Experiential Learning Project (ELP)
 Experiential Learning Project (ELP) is a mandatory and concluding part of the BBA program. It is a semester
 long project in a corporate entity, an on-the-job training in a real business environment. The ELP allows the
 students to network with their future employers and introduces them to the challenges of the real business
 world. The project is equivalent to 6 credit hours and the grade is also incorporated in the CGPA of the students.
 Detailed requirements of the ELP program are available with the program coordinator ofﬁce and are provided
 to the students during their seventh semester. For more information: https://elp.iba.edu.pk/.
 1
 Positive societal impact
 Ethical mindset and societal considerations are infused in the BBA curriculum through various avenues
 including course embedded topics such as Code of Ethics is part of the curriculum in the courses related to
 Accounting and Auditing, term projects, and social internship. In addition, students enroll in a core course
 called Introduction to Business Ethics. The course is designed to help students learn about socially responsible
 ways of engaging with stakeholders.

 Social internship program
 In undergraduate programs, social internship (called the Responsible Citizen Initiative) is a mandatory
 requirement of completing the learning cycle.
 Students are required to work in Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) or a social enterprise for a period of
 four to six weeks to get an exposure to the social problems and contribute at ground level. This can be done
 after the 1st year of studies / 2nd semester and must be completed by the end of the 3rd year of studies / 6th
 semester. Career Development Center at IBA coordinates for the necessary requirements for the internship.
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 34
 Bachelor of Science (BS) Breakdown of credit hours
 Accounting and Finance Course category Courses Credit
 The Bachelor of Science (BS) in Accounting and Finance is a full-time 132 credit hours program comprising hours
 4-year of rigorous education. The program is designed to provide an exclusive opportunity to students to General Education Courses 12 30
 receive a specialization in Accounting and Finance. The graduates of this program obtain multiple
 exemptions from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan (ICAP) and the Association of Chartered Accounting Core Courses 6
 Certiﬁed Accountants (ACCA). Furthermore, the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), 18
 Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Pakistan (ICMAP), and Institute of Bankers Pakistan (IBP)
 also provide exemptions on a case-to-case basis to the program graduates. Details of such exemptions may Finance Core Courses 5 15
 be found on relevant websites and secretariats of these institutions.
 Accounting Elective Courses 6 18
 Eligibility criteria
 For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 29-30. Finance Elective Courses 7 21
 Program learning competencies Allied Courses 4 12
 1. Knowledge of Accounting & Finance Free Electives 3 9
 Students will be able to prepare and analyze ﬁnancial statements and build ﬁnancial models.
 2. Critical Thinking and Problem-Solving Total Required Coursework 43 123
 Students will be able to critically analyze and evaluate information in a business context. Experiential Learning Project 1 6
 3. Communication and Teamwork Corporate Internship 1 3
 Students will be able to communicate effectively and collaborate within teams to achieve desired
 objectives. Total Credit Hours - 132
 4. Ethical Awareness and Social Responsibility
 Students will be able to analyze ethical dilemmas and understand legal and regulatory frameworks in
 business.

 5. Technology and Information Literacy
 Students will be able to leverage technology and information resources to analyze data and communicate
 effectively in a business context.

Program structure
 Credit
 hours
 Time to completion 4 years -
 Minimum regular semesters 8 -
 Core courses 27 75
 Elective courses 16 48
 Experiential Learning Project (ELP) 1 6
 Corporate internship (6-8 weeks) 1 3
 Total 43 + 132
 ELP+Internship
 Responsible Citizen Initiative (RCI) internship 1 -
 Personal effectiveness program*

*Personal effectiveness program is a 10-hour seminar series conducted by industry professionals.
---
 35 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 Semester-wise sequence of courses
 Freshman Semester 1 Course Credit Pre-requisite Course type Senior Semester 7 Course Credit Pre-requisite Course type
 code hours code hours
 1 Microeconomics ECO101
 Allied - 3 1 Finance Elective 4 - 3 - Finance
 2 Introduction to Astronomy - MTS152 3 General Education 2 Finance Elective 5 - 3 - Finance
 3 Business Communication MGT211 - 3 General Education 3 Finance Elective 6 - 3 - Accounting
 4 Pakistan History SSC153 - 2 General Education 4 Accounting Elective 4 - 3 - Accounting
 5 Calculus 1 MTS101 - 3 Allied 5 Accounting Elective 5 - 3 - Accounting
 6 Entrepreneurship BUS103 2- General Education
 7 Business Ethics BUS102- 2 General Education

 Semester 2 Course Credit Pre-requisite Course type Semester 8 Course Credit Pre-requisite Course type
 code hours code hours
 1 Macro Economics ECO111 3 - Allied 1 Accounting Elective 6 - 3 - Finance
 2 Psychology of Business BUS101 2 - General Education 2 Finance Elective 7 - 3 - Finance
 Introduction to Computer CSE103 3 Free Elective 3 - 3 -
 3 - Applications 3 General Education
 4 Islamic Studies 2 SSC152 - General Education
 5 Speech Communication 3 HUM201 - General Education
 6 Introduction Statistics to 3 - MTS102 General Education
 7 Introduction to Philosophy - 2 HUM102 General Education

 Sophomore Semester 3 Course Credit Pre-requisite Course type
 code hours
 1 Principle of Accounting ACC111 3 - Accounting
 Introduction to Business
 Finance2 - 3 Finance FIN201
 3 Business Law LAW205 3 - Accounting
 Financial Institute and
 4 3 Market FIN301 Finance -
 5 Free
 Elective 1 - 3 -


 Semester 4 Course Credit Pre-requisite Course type
 code hours
 1 Financial Accounting ACC201 3 ACC111 Accounting
 2 Organizational Behavior MGT221 3 BUS101 Allied
 3 Financial Management FIN401 3 FIN201 Finance
 4 Auditing ACC320 3 ACC201 Accounting
 5 Statistical Inference MTS202 3 - General Education
 6 Free Elective 2 - 3 -

 Junior Semester 5 Course Credit Pre-requisite Course type
 code hours
 1 ACC201 Taxation LAW303 3 Accounting
 2 LAW205 Management Accounting Accounting
1 3 FIN464 Financial Modeling
 Regulation and Financial
1 4 FIN465 Market Finance
 5 - Finance Elective 1

 Semester 6 Course Credit Pre-requisite Course type
 code hours
 1 Accounting Elective 1 - 3 - Accounting
 2 Accounting Elective 2 - 3 - Accounting
 3 Accounting Elective 3 - 3 - Accounting
 4 Finance Elective 2 - 3 - Finance
 5 Finance Elective 3 - 3 - Finance
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 36
Accounting electives (6 to be selected) Free electives (3 to be selected)
Accounting elective courses may constitute any of the courses offered by the Accounting and Law Students must choose 3 courses as free electives from any undergraduate courses offered by any school at
department (subject to fulﬁlment of pre-requisites) that is not a core course. The relevant courses have the the IBA.
course code in the format of ACCXXX and LAWXXX. The list of course offerings differ semester to semester At least one of the NS electives must be from courses offered by the Social Sciences Department. These
and students can ﬁnd the current offerings on the website or with the relevant program ofﬁces. A reference courses are usually in the format of SSCXX, HUMXXX, HSTXXX, NSCXXX, MCSXXX, POLXXX, PSYXXX, or
list of accounting elective courses is given below. language courses. The other three electives in this category can be any undergraduate course that is not a
 core (or equivalent) course and not an accounting or ﬁnance elective for the program. These courses may
 S. No. Course title Course code Credit hours Pre - requisite be those offered from any of the three schools at IBA (subject to fulﬁlment or pre-requisites). ACF Students
 are not allowed to take Principles of Microeconomics, Principles of Macroeconomics, Principles of
 1 Globalization & International Law ACC231 3 - Management, or Organizational Behavior as NS electives. The list of course offerings differ semester to
 2 Advanced Managerial Accounting ACC310 3 ACC220 semester and students can ﬁnd the current offerings on the relevant website or with the relevant program
 3 Financial Reporting ACC315 3 ACC201 ofﬁces.
 4 Advanced Auditing ACC325 3 ACC320
 5 Accounting Information System with SAP ACC330 3 ACC201
 6 Advanced Financial Reporting ACC401 3 ACC315
 Politics and Law LAW105 3 -
 7
 8 Corporate Law LAW305 3 LAW205
 9 Legal & Regularity Environment LAW310 3 LAW205
 10 Advanced Taxation LAW401 3 LAW303 Accounting electives compulsory for CA and ACCA exemption
 Course category Course code
Finance electives (7 to be selected) Financial Reporting ACC315
Finance elective courses may constitute any of the courses offered by the Finance department (subject to Corporate Law LAW305
fulﬁllment of pre-requisites). These courses usually have code in the format of FINXXX. The list of course
offerings differ semester to semester and students can ﬁnd the current offerings on the relevant website or
with the relevant program ofﬁces. Experiential learning and lifelong learning mindset
 The curriculum of the BSAF program is enriched with experiential learning opportunities and activities
A reference list of ﬁnance elective courses is given below (offered in the last year). aimed at developing a lifelong learning mindset. In addition to the personal effectiveness seminar series,
 Course code many courses include guest speaker sessions from industry experts. Some courses also include formal
 S. No. Course title Credit hours Pre requisite - corporate visits like the visit to Pakistan Stock Exchange in an undergraduate core course ‘Financial
 Institutions and Markets’.
 1 Fixed Income Investments FIN424 3 FIN401
 2 Investment Banking FIN451 3 FIN401 Internships
 To provide students with an early exposure to the business world, a formal corporate internship for 3 credit
 3 Security Analysis FIN453 3 FIN401 hours must be carried out after completing the 6th semester (i.e. after completion of all the courses till 6th
 semester). These internships are a mandatory requirement for graduation. Career Development Center at
 4 Corporate Finance FIN454 3 FIN401 IBA coordinates the necessary requirements for the internship.
 5 Portfolio Management FIN455 3 FIN401
 6 3 FIN401 Experiential Learning Project (ELP)
 The experiential Learning Project (ELP) is a mandatory and concluding part of the BSAF program. It is a
 Financial Risk Management FIN456
 7 3 semester-long project in a corporate entity, an on-the-job training in a real business environment. The ELP
 Derivatives FIN457 FIN401 allows the students to network with their future employers and introduces them to the challenges of the
 8 Treasury and Funds Management FIN462 3 FIN401 real business world. The project is equivalent to 6 credit hours and the grade is also included in the CGPA of
 the students. Detailed requirements of the ELP program are available from the program coordinator ofﬁce
 9 Islamic Banking & Finance FIN463 3 - and are provided to the students during their seventh semester.
 10 Marketing of Financial Service FIN467 3 FIN401 For more information: https://elp.iba.edu.pk/.
 11 Venture Capital & Innovation in Finance FIN468 3 FIN401
---
 37 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Positive societal impact
Ethical mindset and societal considerations are infused in the BSAF curriculum through various avenues
including course embedded topics such as the Code of Ethics is part of the curriculum in the courses
related to Accounting and Auditing, term projects, and social internship.

Social internship program
In undergraduate programs, social internship (called the Responsible Citizen Initiative) is a mandatory
requirement for completing the learning cycle. Students are required to work in Non-Governmental
Organization (NGO) or a social enterprise for a period of four to six weeks to get exposure to social problems
and contribute at the ground level.

This internship can be carried out after the 1st year of studies / 2nd semester and must be completed by the
end of the 3rd year of studies / 6th semester. Career Development Center at IBA coordinates the necessary
requirements for the internship.

Use of technology and innovative pedagogy
The curriculum encourages use of the latest technology applications in its courses related to different
business functions. These emerging technologies are continuously identiﬁed through market trends and
are made part of the curricula after certain deliberations through the course review process. Some courses
in the BSAF program integrating software teaching include Financial Management, Financial Modelling
(Advanced Excel), Accounting Information System with SAP (SAP) and Financial Econometrics (E views).
Another way the program fosters technological exposure to its students is through the integration of
technology into pedagogy. The use of games and simulations, course projects, video case studies and
blended learning (online courses like Coursera) require students to keep in constant touch with recent
technology platforms.
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 38
 Master of Business Administration (MBA) Program features
 MBA is IBA’s ﬂagship program. It is a two-year, full-time, rigorous master’s program in business Experiential learning and lifelong learning mindset
 administration designed to prepare young graduates from various disciplines for a professional The curriculum of the MBA Program is enriched with experiential learning opportunities. The personal
 management career in the corporate world. Through this program, students will develop a range of effectiveness program consists of several interactive sessions delivered by industry professionals on a range
 analytical, conceptual, and operational skills that can address the challenges in industry and society. The of contemporary topics. Furthermore, guest lectures, ﬁeld trips, games and simulations, and term projects
 program attracts talented students through a competitive process and facilitates their transformation into are also included for experiential learning.
 responsible managers and business leaders. Our MBA graduates are trained to think critically and to work
 with ethical integrity. The program follows an eclectic mix of pedagogical methods, including case method, The students are also exposed to various activities to develop a lifelong learning mindset. With faculty
 problem-based learning, simulations and lectures to help students learn the skills, attitudes, and behaviors mentoring, they are encouraged to participate in industry challenges, competitions, and activities to further
 necessary for their success in contemporary business environment. develop a learning mindset.

 Eligibility criteria MBA Project
 For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 29-30. The mandatory MBA Project serves as a tool for experiential learning as it involves data collection and
 detailed analysis of a speciﬁc industry-related issue and presentation of analysis with solutions/
 recommendations. Students must engage with the industry and a faculty mentor to complete the project.
 Program learning competencies
 1. Knowledge of business and management Corporate internship
 Students develop the capability to evaluate the functions of enterprise and their interactions with the MBA students must also undertake a mandatory 6 – 8-week corporate internship. This provides them with
 local and global environments. exposure to apply their learning in an actual work environment.
 2. Analytical decision making
 Students develop competence in the analysis of management problems and creation of effective and Positive societal impact
 efﬁcient solutions. I n line with the mission of IBA-SBS, MBA program is geared toward creating societal impact by increasing
 3. Effective communication the productivity of enterprises, improving the management and governance, and solving the problems of
 Students develop the ability to effectively present their ideas in oral and written communication. industry. The program also seeks to develop ethical leadership among its students.
 4. Ethical leadership and teamwork
 Students develop the ability to work with and positively inﬂuence others, keeping in view the ethical and Use of technology and innovative pedagogy
 social implications of their decisions and actions.
 5. Technology in management IBA-SBS supports and encourages the use of innovative pedagogical tools by faculty through various faculty
 Students develop competence in the application of technology in various functions of management. training sessions and ensuring access to such resources. For example, IBA-SBS has access to Harvard
 Business Publishing and uses Harvard cases and simulations in the curriculum.
Program structure The MBA program also incorporates modern information and communication technologies to equip with
 Credit hours necessary technological skills to be effective managers and leaders.
 Time for completion 2 years -
 Business Orientation Program 4-6 weeks -
 (BOP)
 Core courses 13 39**
 Elective courses 15 15
 MBA Project 1 6
 Total 18+1
 Corporate internship (6-8 weeks) 1
 Personal effectiveness program** 1
 (10 hours)
 *Approximate only; actual duration varies based on the course load.
 **Personal effectiveness program consists of 5 sessions delivered by industry professionals.

 Business Orientation Program Duration
 BOP is based on the essential 4-6 weeks
 topics for the subjects of Accounting, program
 Finance, Marketing, andManagement.


 For the semester-wise sequence of courses, please visit the IBA portal.
---
Executive Master of Business
Administration (EMBA)
The Executive MBA program, offered by IBA-SBS, is designed to train experienced functional managers for
general management positions in the established enterprises. It presents a distinctive chance for
professionals to enhance their expertise and capabilities while maintaining their job responsibilities. The
program can typically be ﬁnished within a span of approximately 2.5 years, depending on the number of
courses undertaken by each student.
 39 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25


Experiential learning and lifelong learning mindset
The curriculum of the Executive MBA includes different avenues for experiential learning. Guest speaker
sessions, simulation exercises, and term projects provide the opportunity to enhance understanding
through experiential avenue of learning. Workshops, training sessions, networking events are also regularly
arranged to develop a lifelong learning mindset.

 This program caters to professionals aspiring to assume leadership positions and strive for the top echelons Executive MBA Project
 of the corporate hierarchy, particularly within the C-suite (CEO, CFO, and COO). The program's structure,
 curriculum, approach, and material are meticulously crafted in collaboration with renowned experts and The mandatory Executive MBA Project serves as a tool for experiential learning as it involves data collection
 seasoned faculty members. and detailed analysis of a speciﬁc industry-related issue and presentation of analysis with solutions/
 recommendations. It is expected that the student will bring a management problem from their employing
 Eligibility criteria company and address this problem as part of the project under the supervision of a faculty member.
 For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 29-30. Positive societal impact
 Class schedule In line with the mission of IBA-SBS, Executive MBA program is geared toward creating societal impact by
 The classes are scheduled on Saturday and Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. depending on the stage solving the problems of industry and improving the management and governance of enterprises. The
 of the program and the nature of the course. Students are expected to fully commit both days to the program also seeks to develop ethical leadership among its students.
 program, attend the classes, and complete the assignments as per schedule announced for the semester.
 Use of technology and innovative pedagogy
 Program learning competencies IBA-SBS supports and encourages the use of innovative pedagogical tools by faculty through various faculty
 training sessions and ensuring the access to such resources. Many courses at the Executive MBA level use
 1- Knowledge of business, society, and global management practice case studies in pedagogy to embed the application of concepts in real life scenarios. The faculty has access
 Participants develop the capability to evaluate the strategic role and dynamics of enterprises and their to Harvard Business Publishing and uses Harvard cases and simulations in various courses.
 interactions with the environments in local and global contexts.
 2- Executive decision making
 Participants develop the skills of systematic thinking and logical reasoning required for effective decision
 making.
 3- Ethical strategic leadership
 Participants learn to navigate ethical dilemmas and make organizations a force for the good of society.
 4- Executive communication
 Participants learn to communicate effectively to various audiences and using different media.
 5- Technology in management
 Participants develop competence in the application of technology in various functions of management.

 Program structure
 Description No. of courses Credit hours

 Time for completion is 2.5 years* - -

 Core courses 13 39

 Capstone (after all core courses) 01 03

 Elective courses 8 12

 Executive MBA Project 1 6

 Total - 60

 *Based on full course load - -

 For the semester-wise sequence of courses, please visit the IBA portal.
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 40
 Master of Science (MS) Finance
 The MS Finance is a 36 credit hours morning program that can be completed in a minimum duration of 1.5 semester-wise sequence of courses
 years. The program is designed to provide a solid theoretical, as well as computational skillset for a Semester -1 Course Credit Pre- Course
 successful career in the ﬁeld of ﬁnance. Students are prepared for challenges in the domestic and global code hours requisite type
 ﬁnancial system by imparting comprehensive knowledge of ﬁnance and its multidisciplinary aspects.
 Students will gain an in-depth knowledge with core courses in corporate ﬁnance and investments, before Corporate Finance FIN555 3 - Core
 they can streamline the degree, to their choice of specialization (Market Finance or Corporate Finance) with
 a range of optional courses, including a few speciﬁcally designed applied courses.
 Research Methodology FIN 3 - Core
 Eligibility criteria
 For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 29-30. Investments FIN511 3 - Core
 Class timings
 This is a full-time program where some of the classes will be held in the morning, with a possibility of Financial Analysis through FIN516 3 FIN555 Core
 evening/weekend classes. Excel and VBA

 Program learning competencies Course Credit Pre- Course
 1. ƫɥƇǾƤƲƫ٪ǯǾȉɦǳƲƫǍƲ٪ȉǌ٪˚ǾƇǾƤƲ٪ƫǛȷƤǛȬǳǛǾƲȷ Semester-2 code hours requisite type
 Students will gain in-depth knowledge of areas within the ﬁnance ﬁeld.
 2. Critical analysis skills Seminars in Finance FIN577 3 - Core
 Students will develop critical thinking skills. Financial Econometrics FIN569 3 FIN555 Core
 3. Ethical awareness
 Students will develop an awareness of ethical issues in the ﬁnance ﬁeld and research.
 Ethics and professional standards in FIN505 3 - Core
 4. Plan and execute research. Finance
 Students will engage with and contribute to knowledge frontiers in the ﬁnance ﬁeld.
 Elective 1 - 3 - Elective
 Program structure
 Credit Semester-3 Course Credit Pre- Course
 code hours requisite type
 hours
 Elective 2 - - - Elective
 Core courses 7 21
 Elective courses 3* 9 Elective 3 Elective
 Thesis / Project 1 6 Thesis/project - - -
 Total 10 + 1 thesis 36
* Non-BBA/BS ACF students will have to complete a business orientation program (BOP). Successful Important Note: A course and its sequence are subject to potential changes for
completion of BOP is necessary for enrolling in the main courses. program enhancement.

** MS students can opt to take the project of 3 credit hours in place of a thesis along with an additional *Students can opt for specialization in the ﬁelds of Corporate Finance or
elective course to complete the mandatory credit hours. Market Finance.
---
 41 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Elective courses
Corporate Finance

 S. No Course title Course code Credit hours Pre- requisite

 1 Mergers and Acquisitions FIN577 3 FIN555
 3 International Finance FIN551 3 FIN555
 4 Applied Security Analysis and Financial Modelling FIN562 3 FIN555

 Market Finance

 S. No Course title Course code Credit hours Pre- requisite
 1 Empirical Asset Pricing FIN575 3 FIN511/FIN516
 2 Derivatives and Risk Hedging FIN568 3 FIN555
 3 Mathematical Finance FIN578 3 FIN555
 4 Treasury and Fund Management FIN565 3 FIN555
 General electives
 S. No Course title Course code Credit hours Pre-requisite
 1 Fintech and Financial Innovation FIN580 3 FFIN555
 2 Behavioral Finance FIN598 3 FIN555
 3 Islamic Finance FIN559 3 FIN555
 4 Risk Management FIN562 3 FIN555
 5 Advanced Econometrics STA672 3 FIN569
 6 Python for Finance FIN582 3 FIN555

 Experiential learning and lifelong learning mindset
 Experiential learning is embedded in the MS Finance program through thesis/project and various projects in courses to give students an opportunity to interact with industry professionals, analyze and document a
 real-life problem and connect with the ﬁnancial market.

 The MS Finance core courses introduce students to basic and advanced level ﬁnance courses along with econometrics and ﬁnancial analysis courses to strengthen students’ research and data analysis skills in
 Finance for lifelong learning. Students then choose their thesis or project as per the specialized area of choice which enables them to apply the relevant research tools to analyze an issue in their selected area.

 ڴ٪٪٪٪FǛǾƇǾƤƲ٪jƇƣ
 A Finance lab is also being developed at the IBA-SBS which will give students an opportunity to apply their learning through various practical approaches. The Finance lab will provide the students with
 exposure to securities and investment analysis, and portfolio management through real-time market data.

 Positive societal impact
 Aligned with the IBA-SBS mission, the curriculum embeds social enlightenment and ethics at the core of learning. Most courses i nclude a topic on ethical perspective and conduct and projects are also required to
 have a necessary component of ethical implications. Moreover, the students are encouraged to pick a topic for their thesis/ project with a positive societal impact and include ethical perspectives in their research work.

 Use of technology and innovative pedagogy
 The MS Finance program incorporates software in student learning including Advanced Excel, VBA, Stata, R, Python etc. Apart from this, workshops, and multiple training sessions on new software are organized for
 graduate students to support in their research endeavors.
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 42 Semester-wise sequence of courses edit Course Cr Pre- Course
 Semester -1 (Fall) code hours requisite type
 Master of Science (MS)
 Islamic Banking and Finance
 Islamic Economics ECO510 3 - Cor e
 The MS Islamic Banking and Finance (MS IBF) is a 36 credit hours program which can be completed in a
 minimum duration of 1.5 years. It is offered for fresh graduates from business and other disciplines, Research Methodology in ECO5 36 3 - Core
 experienced practitioners as well as Shariah scholars. The program is designed to meet the growing Finance
 needs of the Islamic Finance industry by providing theoretical and applied knowledge of Islamic
 Finance, Islamic Jurisprudence, Banking and Economics. Graduates of the program will have promising Islamic Jurisprudence and FIN508 3 - Core
 career prospects in academia and in the local and international Islamic Finance industry. The MS IBF Law of Contract
 program is offered to both full-time and part-time (working) students.
 Eligibility criteria Corporate Finance FIN513 3 - Core
 For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 29- 30.
 Class timings
 The classes will be conducted in the evening and at weekends.
 Program learning competencies Semester-2 (Spring) Course code Cr edit requisite Pre- Course type
 hours
 1. ƫɥƇǾƤƲƫ٪ǯǾȉɦǳƲƫǍƲ٪ȉǌ٪UȷǳƇǼǛƤ٪˚ǾƇǾƤƲ٪ƫǛȷƤǛȬǳǛǾƲȷ
 Students will gain in-depth knowledge of areas within the Islamic ﬁnance ﬁeld.
 Accounting and Auditing for ACC504 3 - Cor e
 2. Critical analysis skills Islamic Finance
 Students will develop critical thinking skills.
 3. Ethical awareness Islamic Capital Market FIN513 3 Core
 Students will develop an awareness of ethical issues in the Islamic ﬁnance
 ﬁeld and research.
 Islamic Finance FIN5 59 3 Core
 4. Plan and execute research
 Students will engage with and contribute to knowledge frontiers in the
 Islamic ﬁnance ﬁeld. Elec tive -I - 3 - Elective


 Program structure
 Semester-3 (Fall) Course Cr edit Pre- Course
 Credit hours code hours requisite type
 Core courses 7 21 Electiv e-II - 3 - Elective
 Elective courses 3 9 Electiv e-III - 3 - Elective
 Thesis / Projec t 1 6
 Semester-4 (Spring) Course Cr edit rPre Course
 Total 10 + 1 th esis* 36 code hours equisite type
 Thesis/
* MS students can opt to take a project of 3 credit hours in place of a thesis along with an Thesis/projec t - 6 /3* ECO5 36 Pr ojec t
 additional elective course to complete the mandatory credit hours. Important note
 **Students opting for a project will have to take an additional elective.
 MS IBF students may take up to 2 Finance related electives offered for other degree programs at IBA.
---
 43 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

Elective courses

 Course Title Course Cr edit Pre-
 code hours requisite

 Islamic Insurance (Takaful) FIN512 3 -
 Investment Banking and Structuring Financial FIN5 50 3 -
 International Financ e FIN5 51 3 FIN510
 Islamic Law of Contrac ts FIN572 3 -
 Islamic Treasury Operations FIN651 3 -
 Islamic Partnership Corporate and Securities La w - 3 -
 Islamic Wealth Planning and Management FIN579 3 -
 Islamic Portfolio Management - 3 -
 Financial Services Mar keting MKT5 75 3 -
 Shariah Issues in Islamic Financ e FIN5 55 3 -
 Commercial Law and Legal Documentation for Islamic Financial FIN654 3 -
 Islamic Entrepreneurship FIN65 2 3 -
 Advanced Ec onometrics FIN581 3 FIN514
 Ethics and Corporate Gover nanc e BUS5 54 3 -
 Risk Management for IFIs FIN578 3 -

Experiential learning and lifelong learning mindset
As a mandatory degree requirement, students are required to work on a thesis or project where they
study a certain issue in detail, collect primary and secondary data to analyze the issue, and produce
recommendations. Working on these projects entails a high level of involvement of the faculty with the
students. Students choose their thesis or project as per the specialized area of choice which enables
them to apply the relevant research tools to analyze an issue in their selected area.

Inculcating a lifelong learning mindset, students also get a chance to work as research assistants on
various faculty-led research and consultancy projects. They are also encouraged to participate in
conferences and seminars with faculty mentoring. Last year, the 3rd World Islamic Finance Forum
(WIFF) 2022 was conducted by the IBA Centre for Excellence in Islamic Finance (CEIF) with local and
global participation.

Positive societal impact
As a positive impact on society is one of the elements of IBA-SBS’s mission statement, it is thus infused
throughout the MS IBF program. Students are encouraged to choose research topics that bring
positive societal change. Some of the recent thesis topics include Islamic Finance Products for
Agricultural Financing, Women Empowerment and Islamic Finance, and Islamic Monetary Policy, and
its impacts. In the MS IBF program, understanding Ethical Awareness and Islamic Banking and Finance
Principles as applied in different countries, regions, markets, jurisdictions, and their impact on
businesses and governments, is an important learning topic that has ethics at its core.

Use of technology and innovative pedagogy
The MS IBF program incorporates software in student learning including Advanced Excel, Strata,
E-views, and Data Stream. Apart from this, workshops, and training sessions on new software are
organized for graduate students to provide them with support in their research endeavors.
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 44
Master of Science (MS) Management
The MS Management is a 36 credit hours morning program that can be completed in a minimum Semester-wise sequence of courses
duration of 1.5 years. The program is designed to prepare students for quality research and analysis in the
ﬁeld of Management. A sound theoretical basis is provided in the general area of Management and in Semester-1 (Fall) Course Pre-requisite Course type
the specialized areas of Strategy and Organization and Operations Management. This is complemented code
by developing research skills through both qualitative and quantitative methods. Students are Research & Practice
introduced to various approaches, tools and techniques in research methods which enable them to of Operations MGT515 3 - Core
engage with management-related issues in a scientiﬁc manner. The MS Management program is Management
offered to both full-time students and part-time (working) students
 Foundations of MGT511 3 - Core
Eligibility criteria Management &
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 29-30. Organization
Class timings Organizational MGT601 3 - Core
The classes will be conducted in the morning/daytime. Research Method
Program learning competencies Elective I 3 - Elective
1. Advanced knowledge of management disciplines
 Students will gain in-depth knowledge of areas within the management ﬁeld.

2. Critical analysis skills
 Students will develop critical thinking skills. Semester -2 (Spring) Course Credit Pre-requisite Course type
 code hours
3. Ethical awareness Philosophy of Management
 Students will develop awareness of ethical issues in the management ﬁeld and research. MGT514 3 MGT511 Core
 and Organization
4. Plan and execute research
 Students will engage with and contribute to knowledge frontiers in the Research Seminar in Strategy MGT602 3 MGT511 Core
 management ﬁeld.

 Qualitative/Quantitative MGT523/ 3 - Core
Program structure Research Methods MGT 524
 Credit hours Elective II 3 Elective
 Core courses 6 18

 Elective courses 4** 12
 Thesis / Project 1 6 Semester -3 (Fall) Course Credit Pre-requisite Course type
 code hours
 Total 10 + 1 thesis 36
 Elective 3 - 3 - Elective
* Non-BBA/BS ACF students will have to complete a business orientation program. Successful completion of BOP is necessary for
enrolling in the main courses. Elective 4 - 3 - Elective
** MS students can opt to take the project of 3 credit hours in place of a thesis along with an additional elective course to complete the
mandatory credit hours
 Thesis/project - 6/3* - Thesis/Project

 Important note
 *Thesis is of 6 credit hours and the project is of 3 credit hours.
 Students opting for a project must take an additional elective of 3 credit hours.
---
 45 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 Elective courses
 Course title Course code Credit
 hours
 Pre-requisite

 Business Analytics BUS501 3 -
 Innovation and Design MGT605 3 -
 Modeling and Simulation MGT574 3 -
 Supply and Demand Management MGT528 3 -
 Organization Theory MGT603 3 MGT511
 Research Seminar in International Management MGT604 3 -
 Research in Organizational Behavior MGT572 3 -
 Pedagogy for Management MGT576 3 -
 Alternative Management and Organization MGT573 3 -
 Project Management MGT555 3 -
 Business Consulting Lab MGT 544 3 -
 Digital Transformation for Business State and MGT 563 3 -
 Society
 Process Mining MGT 543 3 -

Experiential learning and lifelong learning mindset
The core courses in the MS Management program introduce the students to various management and
organization theories, research methodologies, and topics in strategy, and operations management.
Students then choose their thesis or project and apply the relevant research tools to analyze an issue in their
selected area.

Inculcating a lifelong learning mindset, students also get a chance to work as research assistants on various
faculty-led research and consultancy projects. They are also encouraged to participate in conferences and
seminars with faculty mentoring.

Positive societal impact
Ethics is infused in various courses in the form of explicit topics or part of pedagogy, to discuss the ethical
implications such as in the course Philosophy of Management and Organization. Students are also
encouraged to choose a topic for their MS thesis/ project which can bring positive societal change.

Use of technology and innovative pedagogy
The MS Management program incorporates software in student learning including SPSS, Stata, AMOS,
NVivo. Apart from this, workshops, and training sessions on new software are organized for graduate
students to support in their research endeavors.
---
 PROGRAM 46
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Master of Science (MS) Marketing Program structure
MS Marketing is a 36 credit hours morning program which can be completed in a minimum duration of 1.5 Credit hours
years and the maximum duration is 4 years. The MS Marketing program is meticulously designed to
cultivate students' skills and expertise in conducting high-quality research and analysis within the dynamic Business orientation courses* Depending
ﬁeld of marketing and consumer insights. It offers a comprehensive theoretical foundation in marketing,
with specialized emphasis on cutting-edge areas including neuroscience, consumer insights, advertising, on student’s
social media, and retail analytics. The program is aimed at challenging students intellectually and enabling requirement
them to make contributions towards the knowledge and practice of marketing discipline. With a focus on Core courses 6 18
both qualitative and quantitative research methodologies, students will gain proﬁciency to undertake
rigorous research projects, empowering them for various professional roles. Whether aspiring to pursue an
academic career as a researcher or faculty member or aiming for roles in industry as a marketing research Elective courses 4 12
analyst, consultant, consumer insights specialist, our graduates are equipped to excel. Beyond nurturing
foundational knowledge, our curriculum encourages innovative research endeavors, providing a Thesis / Project** 1 6/3
springboard to prestigious PhD programs worldwide. Backed by a rich legacy dating back to our Institute's
inception, our Marketing department is committed to guiding students through a transformative journey, Total credit hours 36
from fundamental concepts to advanced marketing philosophies. (Minimum)

Eligibility criteria
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 29-30.

Class timings
The classes will be conducted in the morning/daytime.
 .
Program Learning Competencies and Objectives
 Program Learning Competencies
• Advanced Knowledge of Marketing Disciplines: Students will have an in-depth knowledge of areas Semester-wise sequence of courses
 within the Marketing ﬁeld.
• Ethical Awareness: Students will develop awareness of ethical issues in marketing ﬁeld and Semester-1 (Fall) Course Credit hours Pre- requisite Course type
 research. code
• Critical Thinking Skills: Students will demonstrate critical thinking skills.
• Plan and Execute Research: Students will engage with and contribute to knowledge frontier in Research Philosophies MKT560 3 - Core
 marketing ﬁeld.
 Seminar in Marketing Theory MKT562 3 - Core
 Program Learning Outcomes:
• Students will be able to understand the main theories and concepts in marketing. Consumer Insights MKT602 3 - Core
• Students will be able to use different philosophical lenses to understand marketing research.
• Students will be able to evaluate marketing practices from an ethical perspective.
• Students will be able to apply ethical standards in the research process. Elective I - 3 - Elective
• Students will be able to understand marketing issues from multiple perspectives.
• Students will be able to evaluate and synthesize the marketing literature and develop
 well-reasoned arguments.
• Students will be able to identify gaps in the existing knowledge or issues in marketing practice. Course Credit hours Pre- requisite
 Coursetype
• Students will be able to design research which aims to address gaps in the existing knowledge or Semester - 2 (Spring) code
 offer solutions to a marketing issue.
 Advanced Qualitative Research 3 - Core

 Advanced Quantitative MKT584 3 - Core
 Research

 Neuro-Marketing MKT660 3 - Core

 Elective II - 3 - Elective
---
 47 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 Experiential learning and lifelong learning mindset
 Pre- Course The core courses in the MS Marketing program introduce the students to various marketing theories, consumer insights, and resea rch
 Semester-3 (Fall) Course code Credit requisite type methodologies. Students can then choose their thesis or research project which enables them to apply the relevant research tool s to analyze an issue
 hours in their selected area, giving exposure to experiential learning and lifelong learning mindset.

 Elective III and IV 3 - Elective ڴ٪٪٪vƲɍȯȉǼƇȯǯƲɅǛǾǍ٪jƇƣ
 The neuromarketing lab provides students an opportunity to learn and observe the effects of stimuli through eye tracking, skin response, and facial
 Thesis/ Project 6/3*** - Thesis/Project response sensors. The purpose of the neuromarketing lab is to advance knowledge and understanding of neuromarketing and behavioral research.

***Thesis is of 6 credit hours and project is of 3 credit hours.

Elective Courses
 Elective Courses Course Credit Pre- requisite
 code hours

 Marketing Strategy 3 -

 Social Media Analytics 3 -

 Business to business 3 -
 Marketing and Channel
 strategy
 Sustainable Marketing MKT660 3

 Advertising and Society 3

 Retail Analytics (1.5 credit hours) - 3 -
 and Research Analytics (1.5
 credit hours) are to be taken
 together

 Note: Electives from other MS programs can also be obtained, seeking
 approval from Program director.
---
 [AlInstltute 0f Xk Business Adminlstration Karachi
 Leadershlp and Ideas for Tomorrow
School of Economics and
Social Sciences
---
 49 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 School of Economics and Social Sciences (SESS)
 The School of Economics and Social Sciences (SESS) is an amalgamation of two departments, two research centers, and three labs. Therefore, SESS includes the Department of Economics, the Department of Social
 Sciences and Liberal Arts (SSLA), the Center for Business and Economic Research (CBER), the Population Research Center (PRC), the Social Inequality Lab, Economic Growth and Forecasting Lab, Psychology Research
 and Testing Lab, and Karachi Urban Lab (KUL).

 Distinguishing SESS features are as following:
 • Over 1,000 students are currently enrolled, fostering a vibrant and engaging campus community.
 • 48:52 male-female student ratio, promoting a diverse and inclusive learning environment.
 • 45+ PhD faculty members, contributing to academic excellence.
 • Research seminars with world-leading institutions to promote intellectual growth and collaboration.
 • Exchange program opportunities for students allowing them to study abroad.
 • Research grants for students to support innovative research initiatives.
 • Variety of social events and vibrant campus life.
 • 1,200+ alumni community around the globe, spanning the US, Germany, Turkey, the UK, Saudi Arabia, Canada, UAE, Australia, Europe, Africa, Hong Kong, and Japan.
 • Over 250 alumni have pursued further education after graduation, many being the recipients of the Fulbright, Erasmus, DAAD, Chevening, and other prestigious scholarships.

 Dean’s Message
 Welcome to the School of Economics and Social Sciences (SESS), where faculty and students engage in holistic, interdisciplinary scholarship in the social sciences to solve complex, real-world
 problems and improve quality of life in society. SESS houses two scholastic divisions devoted to this mission – Social Sciences & Liberal Arts (SSLA) and Economics.

 SSLA is designed to cover a range of disciplines in the Social Sciences and Humanities, comprising of courses in the ﬁelds of S ocial and Cultural Anthropology, Psychology, Sociology, Urban
 Studies, Media and Culture, English Writing and Rhetoric History among several others. The recently introduced MS Development S tudies program has an interdisciplinary approach that
 enables scholars and practitioners of Development to consider the speciﬁcity of societies in terms of history, ecology, culture , technology, politics, etc., and how these differences translate into
 varied ‘local’ responses to regional or global signiﬁcance. MS Journalism is another unique graduate program which allows stude nts to immerse themselves in all forms of journalism - digital,
 audio and video- and gain practical experience in a newsroom under the guidance of experienced journalists and instructors.

 In the department of Economics, we are committed to excellence in research through undergraduate programs of BS Economics and B S Economics and Mathematics. The students learn theory,
 empirical investigation and policy analysis. We also have PhD and MS Economics programs where students regularly present their on-going research and write on local economic issues.

 As the Dean of SESS, I welcome you to this great learning environment and assure you quality learning under the supervision of faculty members of international caliber. I hope that upon gradu-
 Dr. Asma Hyder ation from SESS, you become a thoughtful leader and a professional par excellence.

 Overview of Departments
Department of Economics
The Department enables its students to learn theory, empirical investigation, and policy analysis. The
classroom and on-campus experience help students to be trained as modern-day Economists, Researchers,
Policy Analysts, and Academics in national and international institutions.

Visit the website: https://economics.iba.edu.pk/.

• Carry out rigorous impact evaluation research studies, consultancy assignments, and sponsored
 research work for national and international agencies.

• Publish a ﬂagship yearly state of the economy report and annual international conference of the School
 of Economics and Social Sciences (SESS), IBA Karachi; Conference on Tourism Sustainability in the
 Global South in May 2023 in Karachi.

 • Conduct training workshops for students and faculty.
 Department of Social Sciences and Liberal Arts • Distinguished Lecture Series, Brown Bag Seminar Series, fund student research projects.
 The Department adopts a multidisciplinary approach by offering majors in Psychology, Political Science,
 Media and Culture, and History. The students learn through theoretical and experiential knowledge.
 Visit the website: https://ssla.iba.edu.pk/. Visit the website: https://cber.iba.edu.pk.

 Center for Business and Economic Research (CBER)
 CBER is the research wing of the School of Economics and Social Sciences (SESS), IBA Karachi. It serves as a
 platform for researchers to work with the private, public, and non-proﬁt sectors across different disciplines of
 social sciences and public policy. Its placement within the schools allows it to collaborate with faculty in
 diverse areas of specialization.
---
 PROGRAM 50
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Population Research Center (PRC) Psychology Lab
The Population Research Center (PRC), established at the IBA in collaboration with the Population Council The Psychology lab aims to provide training and learning opportunities for our students enrolled in the
Pakistan, aspires to offer a world-class platform for conducting targeted and in-depth research on popula- undergraduate Additionally, the lab will support graduate degree programs in Psychology in the future.
tion-related issues. The PRC's primary objective is to provide high-quality research on population matters and
to undertake public outreach programs aimed at raising awareness and improving policymaking for a stable,
and healthy society. Economic Growth and Forecasting Lab
Highlights: The lab employs modern data modern data science techniques, big data, and statistical modeling to
 establish relationships between macroeconomic variables and predict the future path of economy.
ƒ Population Research Conference 2023.

ƒ Young Researchers' Workshop Series on PSLM Data Analysis and DHS Data Analysis.

ƒ Population Bulletins highlighting various aspects of Demography.

Visit the website: https://prc.iba.edu.pk.
---
 51 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Programs on Offer School of Economics and Social Sciences
 Bachelor of Science (BS)
 S. No. Information Social Sciences and
 Economics and Mathematics Economics Liberal Arts
 Higher secondary school certiﬁcate
 (Pre-engineering
 or
 general group with Mathematics) with Higher secondary school certiﬁcate (any group
 minimum 60% marks or A levels with 60% marks)
 (Minimum of 1 ‘B’ and 2 ‘C’s) or
 in 3 principal subjects including A level (minimum of 1 ‘B’ and 2 ‘C’s) in 3 principal subjects
 Mathematics or
 1 Admission or American high school diploma (minimum of 80%)
 requirement American high school diploma minimum or
 of 80% An international baccalaureate (minimum 24/45)
 or
 An international baccalaureate (minimum Note: All international certiﬁcate/degree holders
 24/45) must provide an equivalency certiﬁcate from
 IBCC/HEC.
 Note: All international certiﬁcate/degree
 holders must provide an equivalency
 certiﬁcate from IBCC/HEC.

 2 Aptitude test English composition (MCQs) English composition English composition (MCQs)
 component Mathematics (MCQs) (MCQs) Mathematics (MCQs)
 Mathematics (MCQs)

 3 Aptitude test - SAT-I and SAT - II (Mathematics) SAT-I SAT-I
 difﬁculty level

 4 Aptitude test -Refer to the next page - Refer to the next Refer to the next page
 exemption** page

 5 Student proﬁle Avg. age: 19 Avg. age: 19 Avg. age: 19

 40 courses, 126 credit 41 courses,
 hours, 124 credit hours,
 40 courses, 128 credit hours, 1 research Personal Effectiveness (PE) workshops,
 project, 1 Research project, Capstone,
 responsible citizen initiative (RCI), responsible Citizen Responsible Citizen Initiative (RCI),
 6 Graduation corporate internship initiative (RCI), Corporate or Research Internship (3 credit hours)
 requirement corporate internship


 Personal effectiveness course (PE) Personal effectiveness Personal effectiveness course (PE)
 course (PE)

 Click here to view the fee
 Click here to view the fee structure structure
 7 Fees https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee-structure.php https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee Click here to view the fee structure https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee-structure.php
 -structure.php

 8 Classes start August August August
 9 Duration 4 years full time 4 years full time 4 years full time
 10 Campus Main/City Main/City Main/City
---
 PROGRAM 52
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25


 BSSS & BS ECO program - SAT I BSEM – SAT I





*Criteria for IBA Aptitude
 Test exemptions


A score of 600 (out of 800) in Mathematics
A score of 600 (out of 800) in Evidence-Based
Reading and Writing
Scores of Essays are not required for the purposes
of admission, however may preferably be
submitted for placement in English courses
subsequent to admission


BSSS program – ACT
 A Composite Score of 28 (out of 36)
 An English / Writing Score of 25 (out of 36)

BSAF, BSCS, BSECO and BSEM program – ACT
 A Composite Score of 28 (out of 36)
 Score of English / Writing is not required for the purposes
 of admission, however, may preferably be submitted for
 placement in English courses subsequent to admission
---
 53 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
S. No Information Master of Science (MS) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
 Economics
 Development Studies Journalism Economics
 Full time Part time

 A minimum of 16 years of education A minimum of 16 years of education
 (culminating in BS or equivalent degree) out (culminating in BS / BBA / BE
 of which 4 years should have been spent in Or
 an HEC recognized university/degree equivalent degree) out of which 4 years
 Admission awarding institute with 2.5 CGPA on a scale should have been spent in an HEC A minimum of 16 years of education/ MS/MPhil/equivalent in relevant subject from HEC
 1 requirement of 4.00 recognized university/degree awarding equivalent degree in any discipline from a recognized local/foreign university with:
 institute with 2.5 CGPA on a scale of 4.00 local or foreign institute recognized by the minimum 60% aggregate marks (Percentage is only considered if CGPA is not
 Or or 60% marks in the last degree HEC, with a minimum CGPA of 2.5 out of 4.00 available) in the last degree
 (whichever is applicable). Or Or
 60% marks in the last degree (whichever is Percentage is only considered if CGPA is 50% marks in their last degree (as applicable). A minimum 3.0 CGPA on a scale of 4.00 in the last degree
 applicable). Percentage is only considered if not available. All equivalency claims shall be evaluated by where applicable
 CGPA is not available. Candidates with work experience are the HEC. Applicants with prior journalism also must fulﬁll speciﬁc requirements by
 preferred. experience are encouraged to apply the respective departments
 Note: All international certiﬁcate/degree
 holders must provide an equivalency Note: All international certiﬁcate/degree
 certiﬁcate from IBCC/HEC. holders must provide an equivalency certiﬁcate from IBCC/HEC.

 Aptitude • English composition (MCQs) - English Composition (MCQs) English composition (MCQs) - English composition (MCQs)
 2 test • Mathematics (MCQs) - Mathematics (MCQs) Essay writing - Mathematics (MCQs)
 component • Subject specialization - Essay writing GK/Current affairs - Subject specialization


 Aptitude
 3 test - GRE general + specialization GRE general - TOEFL or IELTS
 difﬁculty GRE general + specialization
 level

 Aptitude 160 in quantitative and 150 in verbal GRE 160 in quantitative and 150 in verbal GRE 160 in quantitative and 150 in
 4 test (int’l) (int'l) - verbal GRE (int’l)
 exemption

 5 Student Avg. age: mid 20s Avg. age: 20s - 30s Avg. age: 22-26
 proﬁle Avg. age: mid 20s
 8 courses (30 credit hours) and 1 thesis
 (6 credit hours),
 OR
 Total credit hours = 30 6 courses (24 credit hours) and
 Graduation 8 courses = 24 credit hours 1 thesis (6 credit hours) for Total credit hours = 48
 6 requirement students exempted from 2 foundation 12 courses, 39 credit hours, 1 capstone project, 6 courses = 24 credit hours
 1 thesis = 6 credit hours courses 1 internship 1 dissertation = 24 credit hours
 Note: (Interview panel will decide
 which students are exempted
 from foundation courses.)

 7 Fees Click here to view the fee structure Click here to view the fee structure Click here to view the fee structure Click here to view the fee structure https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee-structure.php
 https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee -structure.php https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee-structure.php - https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee-structure.php

 8 Classes August August
 start August August
 9 Duration 2 years 2 years 1.5 years 4 years
 10 Campus Main/City Main/City Main/City Main/City
---
 PROGRAM 54
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

Bachelor of Science (BS) Economics A. GENERAL EDUCATION COURSES
 Bachelor of Science (BS) Economics program is a 4-year degree program designed to give students a solid S. No Course title Course Code Credit Pre-
 foundation in Economics. The program provides a well-coordinated curriculum and prepares the students hours requisite
 for entry-level positions in private and public sector corporations, development organizations, banks, educa-
 tion, and research organizations. The wide range of courses offered in this program give students ample 1 Entrepreneurship BUS103 2 -
 opportunities to broaden their knowledge base. The Economics research project in the ﬁnal year enables 2 Civic and Community Engagement SSC215 2 -
 students to apply the quantitative tools learned in the program to the economic and ﬁnancial problems in
 the public and private sectors. 3 Introduction to Computer Applications MIS103 3 -
 4 Islamic Scholarly Tradition/Philosophy Logic SSC313/HUMXXX 2 -
 Eligibility criteria
 For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 51-53. 5 Pakistan History SSC153 2 -
 6 Critical Reading and Speech SSC108 3 -
 Curriculum structure 7 Introduction to Academic Writing SSC236 3 -
 8 Introduction to
 Statistics MTS102 3 -
 Duration 4 years 9 Statistical Inference MTS202 3 MTS102
 Semesters 8
 10 Introduction to Philosophy HUM102 2 -
 Courses 41 Physics/Mechanics/Electricity, Magnetism
 11 SCI201/PHYXXX/PHY102 3 -
 Capstone Project 1 and Waves**
 Internship 1 12 Introduction to Psychology/Anthropology/ SSC218/SSCXXX/SSCXXX 3 -
 Sociology **
 Total credit hours (41 courses, 1 project, 1 internship) 127
 Personal Effectiveness (non-credit short course) 1 *All Muslim students are required to register for Islamic Scholarly Tradition (IST),
 Non-Muslim students may take Philosophy Logic and Ethics (PLE).
 Responsible Citizen Initiative (non-credit social internship) 1 ** Students are required to take any one of these three courses.
 Required courses, internships and project
 Section Course category Courses Credit hours
 A General Education 12 31
 B Economics Core 17 54
 C Economics Elective 6 18
 D Interdisciplinary/Allied 4 12
 E Non- specialization elective 2 6
 F Capstone Project 1 3
 G Internship 1 3
 H Personal Effectiveness (non-credit short course) 1 -

 I Responsible Citizen Initiative (non-credit social internship) 1 -

 Total 127
---
 55 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
B. ECONOMICS CORE COURSES
 S. Course title Course Credit hours Pre-requisite C. ECONOMICS ELECTIVE COURSES
 No. code Students are required to take six Economics elective courses. Currently, the following elective
 1 Principles of Microeconomics ECO103 3 - courses are being offered:
 2 Principles of Macroeconomics ECO104 3 - Course title Course Credit Pre -
 3 Intermediate Microeconomics ECO201 3 ECO103 code hours requisite
 4 Intermediate Macroeconomics ECO202 3 ECO104 Public Economics ECO401 3 ECO201
 5 Microeconomic Theory ECO312 3 ECO201 Machine Learning for Economists ECO405 3 MTS111
 6 Macroeconomic Theory ECO313 3 ECO202 Public Finance ECO451 3 ECO104
 7 Applied Econometrics I ECO343 4 MTS202 Monetary Economics ECO452 3 ECO202
 8 Applied Econometrics II ECO344 4 ECO343 Time Series Econometrics ECO457 3 ECO343
 9 Research Methods Economics in ECO411 3 ECO343 Climate Change Economics ECO458 3 ECO103
 10 International Trade ECO466 3 ECO103 International Finance ECO459 3 ECO104
 11 Mathematical Economics ECO303 3 MTS101 Environmental Economics ECO450 3 ECO201
 12 Data Analytics for Economists ECO304 3 MTS111, Natural Resource and Environmental Economics ECO461 3 ECO201
 MTS202 Game Theory ECO464 3 ECO201
 13 Essential Software MTS111 3 - Health Economics ECO471 3 ECO201
 14 Major Issues in Pakistan Economy ECO403 3 ECO203 Labour Economics ECO472 3 ECO201
 Energy Economics ECO463 3 -
 15 Development Economics ECO301 3 ECO104 Energy Systems & Policy
 ECO474 3 -
 16 History of Economic Thought ECO467 3 ECO104 Behavioral Economics
 ECO470 3 ECO103
 17 Impact Evaluation Methods ECO443 4 ECO343 Spatial Economics
 ECO477 3 -
 Economics of Education ECO479 3 -

 D. INTERDISCIPLINARY/ALLIED COURSES
 Students are required to take the following Interdisciplinary/Allied courses. Students must select
 one Interdisciplinary/Allied elective course from Finance, Social Sciences, Mathematics, Statistics,
 Data Science, and Computer Science.

 Course title Course Credit Pre -
 Code hours requisite
 Calculus I MTC101 3 -
 Calculus II MTC232 3 MTS101
 Linear Algebra MTC203 3 MTS101
 Interdisciplinary/Allied elective - 3 -
 Deﬁciency course -
 College Algebra* MTS105 for non-math
 students

 * College Algebra is offered only for those students who do not have a Mathematics background. This is a
 deﬁciency course for non-math students. Students will not be required to pay the fees for this course.
---
 PROGRAM 56
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
E. NON-SPECIALIZATION ELECTIVE
Students must select two NS courses (at least six credit hours) from any discipline other than Economics,
including Accounting, Finance, Marketing, Management, Social Sciences and Liberal Arts, Mathematics, Statistics,
Data Science and Computer Science.

F. CAPSTONE PROJECT
Students must complete one Capstone Project in Economics of 3 credit hours in the ﬁnal year.

 Course title Course Credit Pre-requisite
 Capstone Project in Economics ECO412 3 -

 G. INTERNSHIP: Students must engage in an internship of 3 credit hours after completing their 6th
 semester of the coursework, preferably during the summer break.

 H. PERSONAL EFFECTIVENESS: Personal Effectiveness is offered in either the 5th or 6 th
 semester for BS Economics students. This is a non-credit course and is a part of the graduation
 requirement. It consists of ﬁve 2-hour workshops distributed over the whole semester.

I. RESPONSIBLE CITIZEN INITIATIVE (SOCIAL INTERNSHIP): Students must
 complete their Responsible Citizen Internship (Social Internship) after completing their 2nd semester at
 IBA and must fulﬁll this graduation requirement before the end of their 6th semester.
---
 57 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Semester-wise sequence of courses
 S. No. Semester 1 Course Credit Pre- Course type S. No. Semester 4 Course Credit Pre- Course type
 code hours requisite code hours requisite
 1 Principles of Microeconomics ECO103 Economics core 3 - 1 Intermediate Macroeconomics ECO202 3 ECO103 Economics core
 2 Introduction Computer to MIS103 3 - General Education 2 Mathematical Economics ECO303 3 MTS101 Economics core
 3 Introduction Statistics to MTS102 3 - General Education 3 Essential Software MTS111 3 - Economics core
 4 Critical Reading and Speech SSC108 3 - General Education Physics/Mechanics/Electric SCI201/ Education General 3 -
 Communication 4 ity, Magnetism, Waves PHYXXX/
 PHY102
 5 Pakistan History SSC153 2 - General Education
 Deﬁciency course for non-math students 5 Non-specialization Elective - - - Specialization
 NS
 6 College Algebra* MTS105
 S. No. Course Credit Pre- Course type S. No. Semester 5 Course Credit Pre- Course type
 Semester 2 code hours requisite code hours requisite
 1 Principles of Macroeconomics ECO104 3 - Economics core 1 Applied Econometrics ECO343 I 4 MTS202 Economics core
 2 Calculus I MTS101 3 - Interdisciplinary/Allied 2 Data Analytics for ECO304 3 MTS111, Economics core
 3 Statistical Inference MTS202 3 - General Education Economists MTS202
 Introduction to SSC218/ 3 Microeconomic Theory ECO312 3 ECO201 Economics core
 4 Psychology/Anthropology/Sociology SSCXXX/ 3 - General Education
 SSCXXX 4 Macroeconomic Theory ECO313 3 ECO202 Economics core
 5 Economics Elective I ECO - - Economics elective
 5 Introduction to Philosophy - 2 HUM102 General Education
 S. No. Semester 6 Course Credit Pre- Course type
 6 Islamic Scholarly Traditions (IST)/ - code hours requisite
 SSC152 2 General Education
 Philosophy, Logic, and Ethics ** 1 Applied Econometrics II ECO344 4 ECO343 Economics core
 2 Research Methods for Economics ECO411 3
 ECO343 Economics core
 S. No. Semester 3 Course Credit Pre- Course type 3 Major Issues in Pakistan Economy ECO403 3
 ECO203 Economics core
 code hours requisite 4 International Trade ECO466 3
 ECO103 Economics core
 1 Intermediate Microeconomics ECO201 3 ECO103 Economics core 5 Economics Elective II ECO Economics elective 3
 -
 2 Linear Algebra MTS203 3 MTS101 Interdisciplinary/Allied 6 Personal Effectiveness SSC240 - - credit
 3 Calculus II MTS113 3 MTS101 Interdisciplinary/Allied mandatory
 4 Introduction to Academic Writing SSC236 3 - General Education
 5 Fundamentals of Entrepreneurship MGT103 2 - General Education
 6 Civic and Community Engagement SSC215 2 - General Education
---
 PROGRAM 58
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

 S. No. Summer semester Course Credit Pre- Course type
 code hours requisite
 1 Internship - 3 - Internship

 S. No. Semester 7 Course Credit Pre- Course type
 code hours requisite

 1 Impact Evaluation Methods ECO443 4 ECO343 Economics core
 2 History of Economic Thought ECO467 3 ECO104 Economics core
 3 Development Economics ECO301 3 ECO104 Economics core
 4 Economics elective III ECO 3 - Economics elective
 5 Economics elective IV ECO 3 - Non-specialization
 elective
 6 Capstone Project in Economics ECO412 0 - Provisional for
 starting Capstone 07
 Adeen
 S. No. Semester 8 Course Credit Pre- Course type
 code hours requisite
 1 Economics elective V ECO 3 - Economics elective
 2 Economics elective VI ECO 3 - Economics elective

 3 Non-specialization elective - 3 - Non-specialization
 II elective
 4 Interdisciplinary/Allied - 3 - Interdisciplinary/
 Elective *** Allied

 5 Capstone Project in ECO412 3 - Capstone Project
 Economics

* College Algebra is a non-credit course and is offered only for those students who do not have a
Mathematics background. Students will not be required to pay the fees for this course.

**All Muslim students are required to register for Islamic Scholarly Tradition (IST), Non-Muslim
students may take Philosophy Logic and Ethics (PLE).

*** Students must select one Interdisciplinary/Allied elective course from Finance, Social
Sciences, Mathematics, Statistics, Data Science, and Computer Science.
---
 59 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Bachelor of Science (BS) Economics and Mathematics
Bachelor of Science (BS) Economics program is a 4-year degree program designed to give students a solid foundation in economics . The program provides a well-coordinated curriculum and prepares the students for
entry-level positions in private and public sector corporations, development organizations, banks, education and research organ izations. The wide range of courses offered in this program gives students ample
opportunities to broaden their knowledge base. The economics research project in the ﬁnal year enables students to apply the qu antitative tools learned in the program to the economic and ﬁnancial problems in the
public and private sectors.

Eligibility criteria
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 51-53.
 A. GENERAL EDUCATION COURSES
 Curriculum structure
 Course Credit Pre-
 Duration 4 Coursetitle
 code hours requisite
 Semesters 8
 1 Entrepreneurship BUS103 2 -
 Courses 42 2 Civic and Community Engagement SSC215 2 -
 Capstone Project 1 3 Introduction to Computer Applications MIS103 3 -
 Internship 1 4 Islamic Scholarly Tradition/Philosophy 2 -
 Logic and Ethics* SSC313/HUMXXX
 Total credit hours (41 courses, 1 project and 1 internship) 129
 5 Pakistan History SSC153 2 -
 Personal Effectiveness (non-credit short course) 1 6 Critical Reading and Speech Communication SSC108 3 -
 Responsible Citizen Initiative (non-credit social internship) 1 C i i
 7 Introduction to Academic Writing SSC236 3 -
 8 Introduction to Statistics MTS102 3 -
 Required courses, internships and project 9 Statistical Inference MTS202 3 MTS102
 Section Course category Courses Credit 10 Introduction to Philosophy HUM102 2 -
 A General Education 12 31 11 Physics/Mechanics/Electricity, SCI201/PHYXXX/PHY102 3 -
 B Economics Core 11 35 Magnetism and Waves**
 C Economics Elective 2 6 12 Introduction to -
 Psychology/Anthropology/Sociology SSC218/SSCXXX/SSCXXX 3
 D Mathematics Core 11 33 **
 E Mathematics Elective 2 6
 F Interdisciplinary/Allied 4 12 *All Muslim students are required to register for Islamic Scholarly Tradition (IST),
 Non-Muslim students may take Philosophy Logic and Ethics (PLE).
 G Capstone Project 1 3 ** Students are required to take any one of these three courses.
 H Internship 1 3
 I Personal Effectiveness (non -credit short course) 1 -
 J Responsible Citizen Initiative - 1 -
 (non credit social internship)
 Total 129
---
 PROGRAM 60
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
B. ECONOMICS CORE COURSES D. MATHEMATICS CORE COURSES
 S. No. Course title Course Credit Pre-requisite S. No. Course title Course Credit Pre-
 code hours code hours requisite
 1 Principles of Microeconomics ECO103 3 - 1 Calculus-I MTS101 3 -
 2 Principles Macroeconomics of ECO104 3 - 2 Calculus-II MTS232 3 MTS101
 3 Intermediate Microeconomics ECO201 3 ECO103
 4 Intermediate Macroeconomics ECO202 3 ECO104 3 Multivariable Calculus MTS424 3 MTS232
 5 Microeconomic Theory ECO312 3 ECO201 4 Linear Algebra MTS203 3 MTS101
 6 Macroeconomic Theory ECO313 3 ECO202 5 Discrete Mathematics MTS211 3 -
 7 Applied Econometrics I ECO343 4 MTS202 6 Introduction Differential to Equations MTS241 3 MTS101
 8 Applied Econometrics II ECO344 4 ECO343 7 Stochastic Process MTS304 3 MTS231
 9 Research Methods Economics in ECO411 3 ECO343 MTS101,
 8 Optimization Techniques MTS330 3
 10 Development Economics ECO301 3 ECO104 MTS203
 11 International Trade ECO466 3 ECO103 9 Partial Differential Equations MTS436 3 MTS241
 10 Real I Analysis MTS341 3 MTS232
C. ECONOMICS ELECTIVE COURSES 11 Probability Theory MTS231 3 -
Students are required to take two economics elective courses. Currently, the following
elective courses are being offered:

 S. No. Course title Course Credit Pre-requisite
 code hours
 1 Public Economics ECO401 3 ECO201
 2 Machine Learning for Economists ECO405 3 MTS111
 3 Public Finance ECO451 3 ECO104
 4 Monetary Economics ECO452 ECO202 3
 5 Time Series Econometrics ECO457 3 ECO343
 6 Climate Change Economics ECO458 3 ECO103
 7 International Finance ECO459 3 ECO104
 8 Environmental Economics ECO450 3 ECO201
 9 Natural Resource and Environmental ECO461 3 ECO201
 Economics
 10 Game Theory ECO464 3 ECO201
 11 Health Economics ECO471 3 ECO201
 12 Labour Economics ECO472 3 ECO201
 13 Energy Economics ECO463 3 -
 14 Energy Systems & Policy ECO474 3 -
 15 Behavioral Economics ECO470 3 ECO103
 16 Spatial Economics ECO477 3 -
 17 Economics of Education ECO479 3 -
---
 61 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 E. MATHEMATICS ELECTIVE COURSES F. INTERDISCIPLINARY/ALLIED COURSES

Students are required to take two mathematics elective courses. Currently, the following Students are required to take the following Interdisciplinary/Allied courses. Students must select two
elective courses are being offered: Interdisciplinary/Allied elective courses from Finance, Social Sciences, Data Science, and Computer Science.

 S. Course title Course code Credit Pre- S. No. Course title Course Credit Pre-
 No. hours requisite code hours requisite
 1 Complex Analysis MTS302 3 MTS341 1 Essential Software MTS111 3 -
 2 Abstract Algebra I MTS305 3 MTS203 2 Data Analytics for Economists ECO304 3 ECO304
 3 Numerical Analysis MTS306 3 MTS232 3
 4 Functional Analysis I MTS411 3 MTS341 Interdisciplinary/Allied Elective I - 3 -
 4 Interdisciplinary/Allied Elective II - 3 -
 5 Functional Analysis II MTS412 3 MTS411
 6 Abstract Algebra II MTS413 3 MTS305
 7 Numerical Solutions of PDE MTS431 3 MTS414 G. CAPSTONE PROJECT
 Students must complete one Capstone project of 3 credit hours in the ﬁnal year.
 8 Integral Equations MTS432 3 MTS303
 9 Advanced Numerical Analysis I MTS433 3 MTS414 S. Course title Course Credit Pre-
 No. code hours requisite
 10 Advanced Numerical Analysis II MTS434 3 MTS433
 11 Differential Geometry MTS435 3 MTS204, Capstone Project in Economics / ECO412/ 3 -
 1 MTS439
 12 Fluid Dynamics I MTS437 3 - Capstone Project in Economics Mathematics
 13 Fluid Dynamics II MTS438 3 - H. INTERNSHIP: Students must engage in an internship of 3 credit hours after completingtheir 6th semester
 of the coursework, preferably during the summer break.
 14 Financial Mathematics with a MTS441 3 -
 Computational Approach I. PERSONAL EFFECTIVENESS: Personal Effectiveness is offered in either the 5 th or 6 th semester for
 BS Economics and Mathematics students. This is a non-credit course and is a part of the graduation requirement.
 15 Computational Finance MTS442 3 - It consists of ﬁve 2-hour workshops distributed over the whole semester.
 16 Topology I MTS451 3 MTS341
 17 Scientiﬁc Computing for Linear MTS414 3 MTS413 J. their Responsible Citizen Internship (Social Internship) after completing their 2nd semester at IBA and fulﬁll this
 RESPONSIBLE CITIZEN INITIATIVE (SOCIAL INTERNSHIP): Students must complete
 18 Modern Algebra I MTS443 3 MTS413 graduation requirement before the end of their 6th semester.
 19 Modern Algebra II MTS444 3 MTS413
 20 Measure Theory I MTS445 3 -
 21 Measure Theory II MTS446 3 -
 22 Operations Research I MTS447 3 -
 23 Operations Research II MTS448 3 -
 24 Introduction Differential to Topology MTS452 3 MTS451
 25 Financial Engineering MTS453 3 MTS441
---
 PROGRAM 62
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 Semester-wise sequence of courses
 S. No. Semester 1 Course Credit Pre- Course type S. No. Semester 4 Course Credit Pre- Course type
 code hours requisite code hours requisite

 1 Principles of Microeconomics ECO103 3 - Economics Core 1 Intermediate Macroeconomics EC O202 3 ECO103 Economics Core
 2 Calculus I MTS101 3 - Mathematics Core 2 Linear Algebra MTS203 3 MTS101 Mathematics Core
 3 Introduction to Computer Applications MIS103 3 - General Education 3 Probability Theory MTS231 3 MTS102 Mathematics Core
 4 Introduction Statistics to MTS102 3 - General Education MTS111 3 - Interdisciplinary/
 4 Essential Software
 5 Critical Reading and Speech SSC108 Education 3 - General Allied
 Communication
 SCI201/
 5 Physics/Mechanics/Electricity,
 Magnetism, Waves PHYXXX/ 3 - General Education
 S. No. Semester 2 Course Credit Pre- Course type PHY102
 code hours requisite
 6 Intro
 Philosophy to SSC102 2 - General Education
 1 Principles Macroeconomics of ECO104 3 - Economics Core

 2 Calculus II MTS113 3 - Mathematics Core Course Credit Pre-
 S. No. Semester 5 Course type
 3 Statistical Inference MTS202 3 MTS102 Education General code hours requisite

 4 Introduction to SSC218 3 - General Education 1 Applied Econometrics I ECO343 4 MTS202 Economics Core
 Psychology/Anthropology/Sociology
 2 Microeconomic Theory ECO312 3 ECO201 Economics Core
 5 Pakistan History SSC153 2 - General Education 3 Macroeconomic Theory ECO313 3 ECO202 Economics Core
 6 Islamic Scholarly Traditions (IST)/ SSC152 Education General
 2 -
 Philosophy, Logic, and Ethics * 4 Introduction Differe to ntial Equations MTS241 3 MTS101 Mathematics Core

 5 Real I Analysis MTS341 3 MTS232 Mathematics Core
 S. No. Semester 3 Course Credit Pre- Course type
 code hours requisite Course Credit Pre-
 S. No. Semester 6 Course type
 Intermediate 1 Microeconomics ECO201 3 ECO103 Economics Core code hours requisite

 2 Discrete Mathematics MTS211 3 - Mathematics Core 1 Applied Econometrics II ECO344 4 ECO343 Economics Core
 3 Multivariable Calculus MTS242 3 MTS232 Mathematics Core 2 Research Methods for Economics ECO411 3 ECO343 Economics Core
 4 Introduction to Academic Writing SSC236 3 - General Education 3 International Trade ECO466 3 ECO103 Economics Core
General 5 Fundamentals - Entrepreneurship of 2 MGT103 4 Partial Differential Equations MT S436 3 MTS241 Mathematics Core
 6 Civic and Community Engagement SSC215 2 - General Education
 5 Data for Analytics Economics ECO304 3 - Interdisciplinary/ Allied


 6 Personal Effectiveness SSC240 - - Non-credit
 mandatory
---
 63 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

 S. No. Summer semester Course Credit Pre- Course type
 code hours requisite
 1 Internship - 3 - Internship

 S. No. Semester 7 Course Credit Pre- Course type
 code hours requisite

 1 Development Economics ECO301 3 ECO104 Economics core

 2 Economics elective I ECO 3 - Economics elective

 3 Stochastic Processes MTS304 3 MTS231 Mathematics core

 4 Mathematics I elective MT S 3 - Mathematics elective

 5 Interdisciplinary/Allied elective I Interdisciplinary/Allied - ** - 3

 6 Capstone Project in Economics/ ECO412/ 0 - Provisional for starting
 Capstone Project in Mathematics MTS439 Capstone

 S. No. Semester 8 Course Credit Pre- Course type
 code hours requisite

 1 Optimization Techniques MTS330 3 MTS101/ Mathematics core
 MTS203

 2 Mathematics elective II MTS 3 - Mathematic elective

 3 Economics elective II ECO 3 - Economics elective

 4 Interdisciplinary/Allied II Elective ** - 3 - Interdisciplinary/Allied

 5 Capstone Project in Economics/ ECO412/ 3 - Capstone Project
 Capstone Project in Mathematics*** MTS439

* All Muslim students are required to register for Islamic Scholarly Tradition (IST),
Non-Muslim students may take Philosophy Logic and Ethics (PLE).

** Students must select two Interdisciplinary/Allied elective courses from Finance, Social
Sciences, Data Science, and Computer Science.

*** Students can take either the Capstone Project in Economics (ECO412) or the Capstone
Project in Mathematics (MTS439).
---
 PROGRAM 64
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Bachelor of Science (BS) Required courses, internships and project
Social Sciences and Liberal Arts
The Bachelor of Science (BS) in Social Sciences and Liberal Arts (SSLA) is a 4-year program which Section Course category Courses Credit
 hours
introduces students to a range of academic disciplines in Social Sciences and Humanities. The combina-
tion of core and elective courses in the SSLA degree allows students to develop comprehensive skills in A General Education 12 32
reading and writing, quantitative thinking, problem solving, critical inquiry, and research. The program
offers majors in Psychology, Political Science, Media and Culture, and History, along with minors in
Literary Studies and Urban Studies. As part of the program, ﬁnal year students get the opportunity to B Supporting Courses 7 21
complete an independent research project (called ‘Culminating Experience’ or CE), provided their CGPA
is 3.0 or higher. SSLA students are also required to study a foreign language over a period of two semes-
ters. Languages offered by the department include Arabic, French, German, Italian, Spanish, Persian or Electives C SSLA + Core 8 24
Mandarin. Lastly, to enable students to apply their knowledge of Social Sciences and Humanities in
diverse work environments, SSLA students complete two summer internships, one focusing on research
skills and the other on social service. Electives D Major + Core 10 30


Eligibility criteria E Interdisciplinary/Allied Elective and Core 04 14
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 51-53.

 F Corporate/Research Internship 01 03
 Curriculum structure
 G Personal Effectiveness 01 -
 Duration 04
 H Responsible Citizen Initiative (Social internship) 01 -
 Semesters 08
 Total 124
 Courses 44

 Capstone Project 01

 Corporate/Research Internship 01

 Personal Effectiveness 01

 Responsible Citizen Initiative (Social internship) 01
---
 65 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 A. GENERAL EDUCATION COURSES NATURAL SCIENCE (NSc) COURSE
 The following NSc courses have been offered by SSLA department in the past. A combination of old and
 Course tittle Credit hours new courses is made available every semester.
 Natural Science Course Pre-requisite Credit
 General Education Core code hours

 Entrepreneurship 02 Are We Becoming Post human? Technology, HUM377 3 -
 Society, Ethics
 An Introduction to the Philosophy of HUM382 3 -
 Civic and Community Engagement 02 Mathematics
 Environmental Anthropology HUM455 3 -
 Applications of Information, Communication and Technology 03 History of Science NSC351 3 -
 Introduction to Environmental Sciences NSC354 3 -
 Islamic Scholarly Tradition/Philosophy Logic and Ethics (Islamic 02 Sustainable Cities and Communities NSC358 3 -
 Studies/Ethics) An Introduction to the Philosophy of Physics NSC359 3 -
 Climate Change and Us NSC360 3 -
 Pakistan History (Ideology and Constitution of Pakistan) 02 Science and Medicine in Islamic Societies 700 – NSC361 3 -
 1700
 Critical Reading and Writing (Expository English) 03 Art and Science NSC364 3 -
 Astronomy AST 251 3
 Speech Communication (Functional English) 03 Social and Political History of Medicine NSC 363 3 -

 Introduction to Statistics (Quantitative Reasoning) 03 Students may choose an NSc course offered by another department.

 Statistical Inference (Quantitative Reasoning) 03 B. SUPPORTING CORE

 Fundamentals of Sociology (Social Sciences) 03 Course title Course(s) Credit hours

 South Asian History (Arts and Humanities) 03 Rhetorical Modes of Writing 1 3
 History of Ideas I 1 3
 General Education Elective
 History of Ideas II 1 3
 Natural Sciences – Select from the pool of Natural Science 03
 courses Computational Research Methods 1 3

*All Muslim students are required to register for Islamic Scholarly Tradition
(IST), Non-Muslim students may take Philosophy Logic and Ethics (PLE).
---
 C. SUPPORTING ELECTIVES 66 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 Students must select 1 VS elective and 2 HUM electives from the list of available courses.

 Course title Course(s) Credit hours

Visual Studies Elective (VS) 1 3

Humanities Electives (HUM) 2 6

The following courses have been offered in the past. A combination of old and
new courses is made available every semester.
 Course Credit Pre-
 Visual Studies code hours requisite











 Natural Science Course Credit Pre-
 code hours requisite
Art and Science NSC364 3
From Baghdad to Cordoba: History of Science, NSC 351 3
Medicine, and Technology in Islamicate Societies,
700-1900
 SSC218,
Physiological Psychology PSY371 3 PSY301
Environmental Anthropology HUM455 3
Social and Political History of Medicine NSC 363 3
Energy and Environment NSC-366 3



Humanities Course Credit
 code hours
Art of The Islamic World HUM366 3
Calligraphy HUM462 3
Body as Object, Subject and Home HUM344 3
Feminist Legal Theory and Practice HUM396 3
Anglo-Indian Narrative and the Post-Colonial
Subject HUM355 3
Art and Science NSC364 3
Democracy and Digital Activism POL406 3
Technology ethics and society HUM377 3
The Ottoman, Safavid, and Mughal Empires HST354 3
Analyzing the News MCS355 3
Life Span Development HUM494 3 -
Introduction to Philosophy of Religion HUM-103 3 -
Suﬁ Trends and Reform in South Asia HUM490 3 -
Are we becoming post humans, technology, ethics HUM377 3 -
and society
Ghazalian Self and Good Life HUM 387 3 -
History of Anthropological Thought HUM372 3
Food, Self and Society HUM460 3
Topics in Medieval Muslim Culture HUM460 3
Ethnomusicology: Music and Culture course HUM457 3
Spirituality in Islam: Classical Texts and Themes HUM453 3

Remote Sensing and GIS Applications HUM-477 3 -
Journalism and Society MCS-387 3 -
An Intellectual and Cultural History of Muslim Spain HUM369 3

1. Literary Studies and Urban Studies courses can be taken as Humanities courses.

2. Some major electives are crosslisted as Humanities. Students will be informed about
 these electives at the start of each semester.
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 67
 D. SSLA CORE The following core courses are offered in each major:
 Course title Credit hours
 History Course Credit hours Pre-requisite
 Introduction to Historical Methods 03 code
 03 From Empires to Nation-States: HST301 3 SSC232
 Introduction to Psychology A History of the Pre-20th CenturyWorld
 Introduction to Social and Cultural 03 Topics in Historiography HST302 3 SSC232
 Anthropology Twentieth Century Global History HST303 3 SSC232
 Introduction to Media and Culture 03 Research Methods in History: Primar y HST304 4 SSC232
 Source Genres
 Introduction to Political Science 03
 Introduction to Urban Studies/Introduction 03 Psychology Course code Credit ours h Pre-requisite
 to Literary Studies
 Research Methods in Psychology MTS20 4 SSC218
E. SSLA ELECTIVES Human Development SSC221 3 SSC218
 Students with CGPA 3.0 or higher will decide whether they wish to carry out a research project (spread History and Systems of Psychology SSC238 3 SSC218
 over two semesters) or take two electives from within the SSLA department. They can choose electives
 outside their major. Introduction to Social Psychology SSC239 3 SSC218

 Students with a CGPA below 3.0 will not be eligible to pursue research. They will be required to take two
 SSLA electives. They can choose electives outside their major. Course
 Media and Culture code Credit hours Pre-requisite
 From next year, in addition to CGPA, a student’s Capstone grade will also be considered while
 determining their eligibility for pursuing research.
 Critical Theories and Methods MCS340 4 SSC216
 Course title Credit hours Media Aesthetics and History: Film, MCS310 3 SSC216
 TV and Digital Media
 Culminating Experience/SSLA Elective I 3 Critical Media Practice I: Digital Image, MCS311 3 SSC216
 Sound, and Story
 Culminating Experience/SSLA Elective II 3 Critical Media Practice II: Multimodal MCS312 3 SSC216
 Publication and Design
 F. MAJOR CORE
 Course title Credit hours Political Science Course
 code Credit hours Pre-requisite
 Major Core I 03
 Research Methods in Political Science POL301 4 SSC217
 Major Core II 03 History of Political Thought POL302 3 SSC217
 Comparative Politics POL303 3 SSC217
 Major Core III 03 International Relations SSC111 3 -

 Capstone/Research Methods Course 03
---
 68 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 The following courses have been offered in the past. A combination of old and new
G. MAJOR ELECTIVES courses is made available every semester.
 Course title Credit hours History Course code Credit hours Pre-requisite
 Major Elective I 3 From Baghdad to Cordoba: History of Science, NSC 351 3 -
 Medicine, and Technology in Islamicate Societies,
 Major Elective II 3 700-1900
 Women and Gender in South Asian History HST360 3 -
 Major Elective III 3 The Ottoman, Safavid, and Mughal Empires HST 354 3 -
 3
 Major Elective IV 3 Law colonialisms and violence HUM 472 -
 3 Labour Capitalism and Colonialism: the making of HST-355 3 -
 Major Elective V modern South Asia
 Lights Camera History! Representations of MCS-350 3 -
 Major Elective VI 3 Medieval South Asia in Bollywood
 Suﬁ Trends and Reform in South Asia HUM490 3 -
 Constitutional Development in Pakistan POL-382 3 -
 Making of the Mughal Empire: An Intellectual and HUM369 3 -
 Cultural History
 1947/1971: Interrogating Partitions, Narrative Selves HUM376/ 3 -
 HST356
 A History of the Fable in its Greek, Arabic and Indic HUM378 3 -
 Traditions
 Social and Political History of Medicine NSC 363 3 -
 Indian Oceans History HST361 3
 Topics in Medieval Muslim Culture HUM 398 3 -
 Spirituality in Islam: Classical Texts and Themes HUM453 3 -
 History of Science NSC351 3 -
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 69
 Credit Pre-
 Psychology Course Course Credit Pre-
 code hours requisite Media and Culture hours requisite
 code
Positive Psychology PSY369 3 SSC218, PSY301
Personality Psychology PSY368 3 SSC218, PSY301 Visualization & Storytelling MCS385 3 -
Child and adolescent mental health PSY-380 3 SSC218, PSY301 Introduction to Photojournalism MCS386 3 -
Applications of Psychology to Public Health PSY 381 3 SSC218, PSY301 Watching Films MCS359 3 -
 Analyzing the News MCS355 3 -
Urban Mental Health PSY378 3 PSY301 SSC218, Democracy and Digital Activism MCS366 3 -
Educational Psychology PSY368 3 - Political Communication MCS372 3 -
Physiological Psychology PSY371 3 SSC218, Museum, Heritage, and Visual Culture MCS 385 3 -
 PSY301
Organizational Psychology PSY352 3 - Lights, Camera, History! Representations of MCS 350 3 -
Behavior Modiﬁcation PSY383 3 SSC218, PSY301 Medieval South Asia in Bollywood
Mind, Matter, Media: A Socio-Cognitive PSY385 3 - Environmental Journalism MCS452 3 -
Approach' The Making of the Suspense Thriller: Hitchcock’s MCS-388 3 -
Cognitive Psychology PSY359 3 SSC218, PSY301 Obsessions & Cinematic Craft
Introduction to Testing PSY379 3 SSC218, PSY301 Feminist Technology and Media MCS 380 3 -
Clinical Psychology PSY370 3 SSC218, PSY301 Media, Law and Ethics MCS352 3 -
Counselling Psychology PSY365 3 SSC218, PSY301 New Media and Citizen Journalism MCS 383 3 -
From Gestures to Fluency: The Miracle of PSY382 3 - Documentary Craft and Practice SSC-350 3 -
Language Development Journalism and Society MCS-387 3 -
Forensic and Criminal Psychology PSY376 3 SSC218, PSY301 Introduction to Citizen Journalism MCS 383 3 -
Management and Organizational Behavior MGT221/MGT231 3 Visual Methods in Urban Research HUM-484 3 -
 - Social Media Marketing MKT468 3 -
Human Resource Management HRM401/HRM464 3
 -
---
 70 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 Course Credit Pre-requisite H. INTERDISCIPLINARY/ALLIED CORE
 Political Science code hours
China contemporary security environment POL-378 3 - Course title Credit hours
The National Security Process POL-340 3 -
Transnational Islamic Politics POL451 3 -
Democratization POL381 - - Calculus I 03
Political Communication MCS372 3 -
Law colonialisms and violence HUM 472 3 - 04
Cities, Gender and Climate Change DEV-538 3 - Foreign Language I
Constitutional Development in Pakistan POL-382 3 -
Political Violence, Civil War and Terrorism POL 350 3 - Foreign Language II 04
Political Sociology of Modern Sindh POL 380 3 -
War: Conceptual Underpinnings POL 354 3 -
Law and Human Rights POL355 3 - I. INTERDISCIPLINARY/ALLIED ELECTIVE
 Students must select one Interdisciplinary Elective course from outside the Department of SSLA.
Pakistan's Foreign Policy POL362 3 - Interdisciplinary courses are offered in complementary disciplines to reinforce the notion of interdisci-
 -plinary competency and to support the major’s horizon.

 Course title Credit hours

 Interdisciplinary/Allied Elective 03

 J. MINOR CORE
 Students can opt for a minor in Literary Studies or Urban Studies. Students will take one required
 core and then choose three electives from the list of courses in Literary Studies and Urban Studies
 that can also be counted as minor electives.

 Course title Course code Credit
 hours

 Intro to Urban Studies/Intro to Literary SSC234/SSC214 03
 Studies
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 71
K. MINOR ELECTIVE
 Students choosing the minor track are required to take at least three minor electives after studying the minor
 core course in their 4th semester. A combination of old and new courses is offered each term. Course Pre- Credit
 Minor in Urban Studies code requisite hours
 Minor in Literary Studies Course Pre- Credit
 code requisite hours Cities, Gender and Climate Change DEV-538 3 -
 The City HST358 3 -
 Creative Writing HUM360 3 - Climate, Architecture and Urban HUM-487 3 -
 Literary Movements: From Romanticism to HUM 467 3 - Environments in cities of the Global South
 Postmodernism
 Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra MCS 342 3 - Reading Karachi: History and Urban HUM 471 3 -
 Borders and Boundaries: South Asian and HUM367 3 - Transformations
 Middle Eastern Feminist Fiction Environment, Climate Change and HUM-476 3 -
 English over the Ages: History and HUM 464 3 - Development
 Reception Urban Sociology HUM 475 3 -
 Female Friendship in World Literature HUM458 3 - Urban Studio HUM-493 3 -
 Pakistani Contemporary Literature in HUM463 3 - Environmental Anthropology HUM455 3 -
 English Sustainable Urban Development HUM-479 3 -
 Decolonizing Narratives: African Literature HUM491 3 - Urban Infrastructure HUM480 3 -
 and the Politics of Identity
 Fragments, footnotes, and other forms in HUM-481 3 - Urban Planning Theories and Paradigms HUM478 3 -
 Fiction Urban Mental Health PSY378 3 -
 World Literature and the Indian HUM489 3 -
 Subcontinent
 “All the World’s a Stage:” Players and HUM488 3 -
 Spectators in Modern Drama
 Freaks, Geeks and Monsters: Exploring the HUM341 3 -
 Role of Other in Fiction
 The Poetics of Iqbal’s Urdu Verse HUM 388 3 -
 Inhiraf-e-Jadeed: Urdu Nasri Nazm HUM390 3 -
 Resistance and Representation in Pakistani HUM386 3 -
 Literature
 Dystopian Fiction: Visions of (Dis)Order HUM-483 3 -
 Poetry Makes Nothing Happen': Poetry in HUM-482 3 -
 the Age of Artiﬁcial Intelligence
---
 72 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 SEMESTER-WISE SEQUENCE OF COURSES
 Semester 1 Course Credit Pre- Course category Course Credit
 code hours requisite Semester 3 code hours Pre-requisite Course category

 1 Calculus MTS104 3 - Interdisciplinary Core 1 Speech Communication HUM201 3 - General Education

 2 SSC101 3 - 2 Statistical Inference MTS202 3 MTS102 General Education
 Critical Reading and Writing General Education
 3 Pakistan History SSC151 2 - General Education
 3 Fundamentals of Sociology SSC231 3 - General Education
 Islamic Scholarly Traditions SSC301/ Education 2 - General
 4 (IST)/Philosophy Logic and HUM
 4 Introduction to Historical SSC232 3 - Ethics (PLE)
 Methods SSLA Core

 5 Natural Science Elective 3 - General Education
 5 History of Ideas I SSC239 3 - Supporting Core
 6 Introduction to Social and SSC233 3 - Core SSLA
 6 College Algebra* Deﬁciency course for non-math students Cultural Anthropology

* College Algebra is a non-credit course and is offered only for those students who do not have a Course Credit
Mathematics background. Students will not be required to pay the fees for College Algebra. Semester 4 code hours Pre-requisite Course category

 Semester 2 Course Credit Pre- Course category 1 Entrepreneurship 2 - General Education
 code hours requisite

 1 Intro to Statistics MTS102 3 - General Education 2 Civic and Community
 2 - General Education
 Engagement
 2 Rhetorical Modes of Writing SSC106 3 SSC101 Supporting Core
 3 Introduction to Media and Culture SSC216 3 - SSLA
 Core
 3 Intro to Psychology SSC218 3 - SSLA Core
 4 Introduction to Political Science SSC217 3 - SSLA
 Core

 4 South Asian History SSC221 3 - General Education Introduction to Urban 3 - Core SSLA
 5 Studies/Introduction to Literary SSC234/
 5 SSC238 3 SSC239 Studies SSC214
 History of Ideas II Supporting Core

 6 Information and Communication 3 - General
 Technology Education
 Summer semester Credit hours Course category

 Responsible Citizen Initiative (Social Internship) Internship

 RESPONSIBLE CITIZEN INITIATIVE
 Responsible Citizen Initiative, commonly known as Social Internship, is a 6-week mandatory social internship
 required for all students enrolled in their undergraduate programs. The students need to work in a social
 sector organization, NGO, community-based organization, or any charitable institute in Pakistan ideally
 during the summer break or during their study.
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 73
 Semester 5 Course Credit Pre- Course category
 code hours requisite

 1 Major Core I - 3 - Major core

 2 Major Core II - 3 - Major core

 3 Foreign Language I* SSC201/205/ 4 - Interdisciplinary
 209/330 /Allied Core

 4 Computational Research Methods SSC302 3 MTS202 Core Supporting

 5 Humanities Elective I - 3 Supporting Elective

*Students may select from a range of languages offered each term, including Persian, Arabic, French,
German, Italian, Spanish, and Mandarin.

 Semester 6 Course Credit Pre - Course category
 code hours requisite

 1 Major Core III - 3 - Core Major

 HST/PSY/
 2 Research Methods Course POL301 & 3 - Capstone
 MCS340

 3 Major Elective I - 3 - Elective Major

 4 SSC202/206/ 4 SSC201/205/ Interdisciplinary/Allied Core
 Foreign Language II 210/331/ 209/330

 5 Interdisciplinary Elective - 3 - Interdisciplinary/Allied Elective

 6 Personal Effectiveness -
 Workshops

PERSONAL EFFECTIVENESS WORKSHOPS
Personal Effectiveness is offered in the 6th semester for BS SSLA students. This is a non-credit course and is a
graduation requirement. It consists of ﬁve 2-hour workshops distributed over the whole semester.

 Summer semester Credit hours Course category
 Corporate/Research Internship 3 Internship

CORPORTE/RESEARCH INTERNSHIP
Students must engage in a Corporate or Research internship of 03 credit hours after completing their 6 th
semester of the coursework, preferably during the summer break. They will be supervised by a faculty
member from SSLA.
---
 74 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 Semester 7 Course Credit Pre- Course
 code hours requisite category

1 - 3 - Major
 Major Elective II Elective

2 - 3 - Major
 Major Elective III Elective

3 - 3 - Major
 Major Elective IV Elective

4 - 3 - Supporting
 Visual Studies Elective Elective

 HST/PSY/ SSLA
5 SSLA Elective/Culminating SSC491 3 POL301 & Elective
 Experience MCS340

 Semester 8 Course Credit Pre- Course
 code hours requisite category

1 - 3 - Major
 Major Elective V Elective 822
2 - 3 - Major
 Major Elective VI Elective

3 - 3 - Supporting
 Humanities Elective II Elective

 HST/PSY/
4 SSC492 3 POL301/ SSLA
 SSLA Elective/Culminating MCS 340 & Elective
 Experience SSC491
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 75
 Course category
 Master of Science (MS) Course title
 Theories and Critical Approaches in Development Course code Credit hours DEV533 3 Pre-requisite -
 Development Studies
 MS Development Studies (Dev. Studies) is a multi and interdisciplinary program that explores critical Anthropology & Development
 Policy Analysis: Theory & Practice DEV534
 DEV535 3
 3 -
 -
 topics of development theory and practices, introducing development as a process of evolution of Research Methods in Development DEV536 3 -
 societies. Development Studies is also a policy debate that considers the speciﬁcity of societies in Core elective Course code Credit hours Pre-requisite
 terms of history, ecology, culture, technology, politics, etc., and how these differences both can and Elective I ECO631 3 ECO531
 often should translate into varied ‘local’ responses to regional or global processes and varied strategies
 of development. Elective II - 3 -
 Elective III - 3 -
 MS Development Studies provides high-quality and rigorous training needed to understand the Elective IV - 3 -
 methods, policy, and practices of development. The program offers a solid multi-disciplinary social Credit hours Pre-requisite
 science formation in theory, mix-methods, and applications employed in various ﬁelds of Thesis Course code
 development. The program is offered by the Department of Social Sciences & Liberal Arts jointly. MS thesis* DEV591 6 -

 This program emphasizes understanding the historical perspectives and recent advances in *The grade on the MS thesis and MS research project would be pass/fail and will not be counted in
 development and caters to the growing market for analysts and policymakers. Graduates from this the CGPA.
 program will be prepared for careers in research institutions, government entities, development
 agencies, international organizations, and policy-related think tanks.

Distribution of credit hours Semester-wise offerings of the courses
 S. No. Semester 1 – Fall Course code Course type
 Courses Credit hours 1 Theories and Critical Approaches in Development DEV533 Core
 Core courses 4 12 2 Research Methods in Development DEV536 Core
 Elective courses 4 12 3 Elective I DEV566 Elective
 MS Thesis 1 6 4 Elective II DEV551 Elective
 Total 9 30 S. No. Semester 2 – Spring Course code Course type
 1 Policy Analysis: Theory & Practice DEV535 Core
MS Thesis may be replaced with a project along with an additional course of three credit hours. 2 Anthropology & Development DEV534 Core
 3 Elective III Elective
Eligibility criteria
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 51-53. 4 Elective IV Elective
 1. End of Year 1 – Summer: - Students will choose an area of interest, a broad research topic and a
Duration
The program is designed as a 2-year full-time program and students will be admitted as full-time only potential supervisor for their research and must have it approved by the relevant department before
 the start of the next Fall semester.
during the coursework. - Applied ﬁeld study module (zero credit hours but compulsory).
 2. End of Year 2 – Summer: Thesis must be completed by the end of summer for eligibility towards
Course requirements graduation.
MS courses: 24 credit hours (8 courses)

MS thesis: 6 credit hours. Students who do not wish to opt for writing a thesis can replace it with an MS
Project (3 credit hours) and an additional course of 3 credit hours.
---
 76 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Elective courses
 Course category Course title Course code Credit hours
 Conﬂict Studies DEV551 3
 Agrarian Development, Food Policy & Rural Poverty DEV552 3
 Environment, Climate Change and Sustainability DEV553 3
 Resources Physical Cities & Urban Development DEV554 3
 Data Science and Development DEV555 3
 Entrepreneurship in Development DEV556 3
 Gender Studies DEV561 3
 Migration and Mobility DEV562 3
 Poverty and Inequality DEV563 3
 Human Population Studies DEV564 3
 Resources Health & Development DEV565 3
 Labor and Social Movements DEV566 3
 Political Ecology DEV567 3
 Leadership in Development DEV568 3
 Public Financial Management DEV571 3
 Aid & Development DEV572 3
 Society & Technology, Culture and Development DEV573 3
 Economy Communication and Social Change DEV574 3
 Decolonizing Methods DEV575 3
 Nature of Inquiry and Survey Design DEV576 3
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 77

Master of Science (MS) Economics S. No. Courses Credit Course
 hours code
 The MS Economics program offers a comprehensive foundation in economic theory, quantitative 1 Economics 3 EC-547
 methods, and practical applications tailored for economists engaged in policy planning, analysis, and
 forecasting across public and private sectors. Aligned with international benchmarks, its curriculum 2 Mathematics and Statistics 3 ECO545
 emphasizes applied economics, addressing the rising demand for skilled economic analysts. Graduates
 will get the expertise to embark on careers in academia, research institutions, corporate entities, govern-
 mental bodies, and multinational corporations ◆ These two courses will be offered during the summer semester.
 ◆ The student will have to obtain at least 60% marks (Grade-C minus).
 ◆ Admission in MS Economics will be conﬁrmed after passing thesecourses with at least a B- grade.
 Eligibility criteria ◆
 ◆ The courses and grades will not be counted in the transcript and CGPA.
 Students will have to attend classes with at least 75% attendance to be eligible to appear in the
 For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 51-53.
 ﬁnal exam.
 ◆ Half of the full course fee will be charged for each foundation course.
 Duration
 The minimum duration of the program is 2 years.
 Semester-wise sequence of courses
 Class timings
 MS Economics is offered for full-time students as well as for part-time students. Classes in MS Economics S. No. Courses Credit Course
 are scheduled only in evenings (6:00-9:00 pm) on weekdays or any time (between 9:00 am - 9:00 pm) on hours code
 Saturdays.
 Fall semester
 Teaching/research assistant positions
 Teaching/research assistant positions are available in the department for full-time MS students. These 1 Advanced Microeconomics 3 ECO631
 positions are offered only to those students who maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.00 in each semester in
 the MS program. Teaching/research assistants must not work elsewhere. 2 Advanced Macroeconomics 3 ECO632
 3 Econometrics I 3 ECO537
 Requirements for MS Economics 4 Elective I 3 -
 Course requirements
 MS courses: 30 credit hours (courses) Spring semester
 MS thesis: 6 credit hours
 5 Econometrics II 3 ECO538
 6 Research Methodology 3 ECO591
 Required courses 7 Development Economics 3 ECO534
 Course category Courses Credit hours 8 Elective II 3 -
 Core courses 6 18
 Elective courses 2 6 Fall/Spring semester
 Thesis 1 6
 Total 9 30 9 MS Thesis* 6 -

 *Students have the option to take 1 additional elective course and
 Foundation/Refresher courses in summer semester an MS research project (ECO698) in place of MS thesis. The grade
 Two foundation/refresher courses of 3 credit hours each will be offered during the summer semester. BS
 Economics and BS Economics & Mathematics graduates from IBA are exempted from the 2 foundation on MS thesis and MS research project would be pass/fail and will
 courses. For other candidates, the admission interview panel will decide which foundation courses are
 exempted. not be counted in the CGPA.
---
 78 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
List of elective courses

 Course
 Coursetitle code Credit requisite Pre-
 hours
 Financial Economics ECO562 3 ECO531 -
 International Trade ECO539 3 ECO531
 Issues in Pakistan’s Economy ECO544 3 ECO532
 Climate Change Economics ECO551 3 ECO531
 Behavioural Economics ECO554 3 ECO531
 Economic Forecasting ECO555 3 MTS536
 Public Policy Analysis: Theory and ECO560 3 ECO531/ECO501
 Practice
 Environmental and Resource ECO561 3 ECO531
 Economics
 Combinatorial Optimization CSE654 3
 Health Economics ECO563 3 ECO531
 History of Economic Thought ECO564 3 ECO532
 Monetary Economics ECO566 3 ECO532
 Public Economics ECO567 3 ECO531
 Time Series Modelling ECO570 3 MTS5366
 Industrial Economics ECO571 3 ECO531
 Game Theory and Competitive ECO573 3 ECO531/ECO501
 Strategy
 Water Economics and Policy ECO574 3 ECO531/ECO501
 Microeconomics of Public Policy ECO575 3 ECO531/ECO501
 Analysis
 Social Impact Evaluation ECO577 3 ECO531/ECO501
 Behavioural and Experimental ECO578 3 ECO531
 Economics
 Labour Economics ECO654 3 ECO531
 For further details, visit: www.economics.iba.edu.pk
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 79
 • Eligibility criteria
 For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 51-53.

Master of Science (MS) Journalism
 The Master of Science (MS) in Journalism is the ﬂagship degree program in Journalism at the School of • Duration
 The minimum duration of the program is 1.5 years.
 Economics and Social Sciences at IBA. The 1.5-year program allows students to immerse themselves in Semester-wise sequence of courses
 all forms of Journalism – digital, audio and video – and gain practical experience in a newsroom under
 the guidance of experienced instructors. The Centre for Excellence in Journalism at IBA, provides Course Credit Pre- Course
 support to this program through its state-of-the-art facilities and strong linkages with the industry. This Semester - 1 code hours requisite type
 is an opportunity for students to learn cutting-edge skills to enable them to ﬁnd employment in report-
 ing and production across various media platforms. They can also explore the intersection of technolo- CEJ Newsroom 1 JOU504 3 - Core
 gy and media and its impact on the journalism industry in Pakistan.
 Digital News Reporting JOU502 3 JOU506 Core
 Learning outcomes Governance and Society in Pakistan JOU503 3 - Core
 Critical thinking
 Media and information literacy News Writing and Reporting JOU501 3 JOU508 Core
 Foundational knowledge of Pakistan and the world The Profession of Journalism JOU500 3 JOU507 Core
 Industry-speciﬁc concepts, skills and issues
 Independent thinking and innovation
 Leadership skills Semester -2 Course Credit Pre- Course
 Apply knowledge in the real-world context code hours requisite type
 CEJ Newsroom II JOU509 3 - Core
 Current Affairs TV Lab JOU508 3 - Core
 Required courses International Affairs JOU505 3 - Core
 Course category Courses Credit hours Multimedia Journalism JOU506 3 - Core
 Seminars 3 9 Specialized Journalism I JOU507 3 - Core
 Skills courses 4 12 Pre- Course
 5 15 Semester - 3 Course Credit
 Labs code hours requisite type
 Capstone project 1 3 CEJ Newsroom (Summer) JOU511 3 - Core
 Total 13 39 Specialized Journalism II JOU512 3 - Core

 Semester - 4 Course Credit Pre- Course
 code hours requisite type
 Capstone Project JOU600 3 - Core
 Internship - - -

 Internship
 The three-month internship aims to embed students in a conventional newsroom in Pakistan’s dynamic
 media industry. Students will be expected to carry out the internship at a media house/ publication of their
 choosing after the completion of their coursework in semester 4. This internship does not carry any
 weightage in terms of credit hours but is a mandatory requirement for graduation. Students will be
 assisted in placements to newsrooms by the MSJ faculty.
---
PhD Economics
The PhD Economics is a fully-funded program which offers a robust foundation in economic theory,
quantitative methodologies, and practical applications, tailored to meet the demands of economists
engaged in policy planning, analysis, and forecasting across both public and private sectors. With a
focus on Applied Economics, this program responds to the escalating need for skilled economic
analysts. Its curriculum adheres to international standards, promising students an intellectually
stimulating and personally fulﬁlling experience. Graduates will spearhead high-quality research in
their specialized ﬁelds and be well-equipped for diverse career paths spanning academia, research
institutions, corporate entities, governmental bodies, and multinational corporations.

Eligibility criteria
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 51-53.

Duration
Minimum duration of the program is 4 years and the maximum time allowed is 8 years.

Teaching/research assistant positions
PhD program is a full-time morning program. IBA will offer Teaching/Research assistant positions to
PhD students along with a tuition fee waiver. Teaching/research assistants must not work elsewhere.
A PhD student must spend at least the ﬁrst two years of the degree in IBA as a full-time student. The
provision of a stipend will be conditional on the satisfactory performance of students. The maximum
duration for the stipends will be six years.


 Required courses

 Course category Courses Credit hours

 Core courses 4 16
 Elective courses 2 8

 Thesis 1 24
 Total 7 48
 List of core and elective courses for the
 Fall semester
 Course Credit Pre-
 Course title code hours requisite
 Topics in Microeconomic Theory ECO644 4 -
 Topics in Macroeconomic Theory ECO645 4 -
 Econometric Analysis ECO646 4 -
 80


 Dissertation

 Course
 Course title code
 PhD Dissertation ECO799


Elective courses
 Course
 Course title code

 Macroeconomics Modelling and Public Policy ECO655
 Analysis
 Topic in Environmental Economics ECO649
 Topics in International Trade ECO653
 Advanced Financial Economics ECO643
 Topics in Monetary Economics ECO656
 Institutions and Development ECO659

 Advanced International Trade ECO660

Comprehensive examinations
A comprehensive examination will consist of microeconomics and macroeconomics. In case of
failing one part of the examination, the candidate will have to give the complete comprehensive
examination again. Students will be allowed two attempts to qualify for the comprehensive
examination. Students are, however, expected to pass it within two years from the commencement
of the PhD program.

Oral defense of dissertation proposal
At the end of the 2nd year, students are expected to present and defend their PhD dissertation
proposal.
Dissertation defense
Students are expected to submit and defend their dissertation in two years after successful comple-
tion of their coursework.
For further details, visit: economics.iba.edu.pk





 Spring semester
 Course Credit Pre-
 Course title code hours requisite
 Topics in Research Methods ECO650 4 -
 Elective I - 4 -
 Elective II - 4 -
---
 3 /
 8 8
School of Mathematics and
Computer Science
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 82

School of Mathematics and Computer Science (SMCS)
The School of Mathematics and Computer Science (SMCS) of IBA is one of the fastest-growing schools for excellence in teaching and research of computer science in Pakistan. The SMCS has a qualiﬁed faculty comprising
of experienced practitioners and researchers that enrich teaching, provide business consultancies, support startups, and prepar e students for higher education and industry. The school has state-of-the-art facilities
focusing on undergraduate and graduate education. The research labs for Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Web Science, Big Data and Telec ommunications allow computer science students to delve deep into the technological
realm. In contrast, the mathematics programs offer a thorough background in pure and applied mathematics ranging from high-performance computing to commutative algebra.

 Dean’s Message
 I am greatly honored to share the Dean’s message with my faculty members who have contributed with their hard work, vision, and leadership, to make this school one of the best science
 schools in the country.

 The history of science programs in IBA dates to 1983 when it started offering a diploma program in Computer Science to overcome the shortage of information and system analysts in the
 country. Since then, the venture has matured and now offers BS, MS, and PhD programs in Mathematics and Computer Science. We have established research labs for Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
 Web Science, Big Data, and Telecommunication, supporting the MS and PhD programs in the diverse domains of Computer Science. Likewise, the MS and PhD programs in Mathematics aim
 to provide a thorough background in theory, quantitative methods, and applications commensurate with international standards, offering the opportunity of highly specialized training in
 selected areas of pure and applied mathematics.

 As IBA moves into the new system of schools, the newly established SMCS must continue to incubate and stay poised toward cutting-edge research and development in science and
 technology. In the coming years, we plan to enhance our academic programs by investing in our star faculty, establishing strong research and industrial ties across the globe, and bringing
 new specializations in Mathematics, Computer Science and allied ﬁelds. Our mission is to impart quality education to students selected purely on merit, irrespective of ethnicity, gender,
 religion or ﬁnancial means.
 Dr. Shakeel Ahmed Khoja
 The foremost aim of SMCS will be to establish academic linkages with leading science schools of the world so that we can enhance our teaching and research. This would assist innovations
through joint research projects, focused on bringing new knowledge to the classrooms, thereby enriching academic transactions at IBA. The second aim is to offer more streams of specializations. We have introduced an MS
program in Data Science and also plan to offer more programs in Mathematics and Computer Science. This will help diversify our portfolio to attract brilliant students, as well as high-caliber researchers and faculty. We
envisage more productive and society-driven research in the new school. A new BS program in Mathematics is also a step in this direction.

With the IBA’s mission to undertake consultancy and applied research to enrich teaching and inﬂuence thinking on important issues of business and public policy, we believe that SMCS will play a pivotal role in bringing a
signiﬁcant contribution to the global challenges that science and technology can solve.

 Overview of Departments
Department of Computer Science Department of Mathematical Sciences
The Department of Computer Science is one of the two departments at the School of Mathematics and The Department of Mathematical Sciences is the other department under the umbrella of the School of Mathematics
Computer Science (SMCS), the Institute of Business Administration (IBA) Karachi. The department offers and Computer Science at IBA-Karachi. The department offers undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral programs in
bachelor, master, and doctoral degree programs in Computer Science. The department has recently mathematics, besides offering teaching services to other departments for basic undergraduate mathematics.
launched a long-awaited master's program in Data Science as well.
 The faculty at the Department of Mathematical Sciences represents a diverse team of mathematicians, statisticians,
The full-time faculty members of the department teach a variety of courses over a wide range of the entire and physicists, having skills in many different areas of mathematics; these include algebra, analysis, topology,
computer science spectrum. Some of the areas of specialization of full-time faculty members are theory, statistics, econometrics, partial differential equations & scientiﬁc computing, quantum ﬁeld theory, gravitation,
machine learning/AI, quantum computation, computer vision, text analytics, robotics, computer architec- discrete mathematics, and data analytics.
ture, and human-computer interaction.
 The department is currently housed in the south wing of the Tabba Academic Center at the main campus of IBA. We
Some of the many strengths of the department include its high faculty-to-student ratio, the state-of-the-art have state-of-the-art facilities including classrooms, labs, and seminar lounges. Our computational infrastructure
facilities, the renowned visiting faculty from the industry to teach industry-speciﬁc courses, the strong focus includes modern scientiﬁc computing server hardware-based and distributed memory multiprocessing in combina-
on undergraduate education, and research. The faculty emphasizes interdisciplinary and encourages tion with computational and visualization software libraries for numeric and symbolic computing.
students to work with them as well as the faculty of other departments and schools.
 Mathematical Sciences has good local outreach in that we frequently collaborate with local NGOs promoting STEAM
Graduates from the department join the computing industry, multinational organizations, startups, consult- (Science, technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics) activities for aspiring young students of all age groups - in
ing companies, government services, and nonproﬁt organizations. The tech industry in Pakistan is quick to addition to carrying out our university research and teaching activities.
offer jobs and internships to the students of the program and often offers them better opportunities for
personal and professional growth. Many of our students get enrolled in the graduate programs of the leading The Department of Mathematical Sciences is an exciting place to visit, for more details: mathematics.iba.edu.pk.
universities around the world as well. Moreover, the alumni network of our department is very strong and
they provide continuous support to our existing student body in terms of guidance and mentoring.

Visit website: https://cs.iba.edu.pk.
---
Programs on Offer School of Mathematics and Computer Science
 Bachelor of Science (BS)
S. No. Information Computer Science

 Higher secondary school certiﬁcate (Pre-engineering
 or
 general group with mathematics) with
 minimum 60% marks or A levels
 (Minimum of 1 ‘B’ and 2 ‘C’s)
 in 3 principal subjects including Mathematics
 1 or
 Admission requirement American high school diploma minimum of 80%
 or
 An international baccalaureate (minimum 24/45)

 Note: All international certiﬁcate/degree
 holders must provide an equivalency
 certiﬁcate from IBCC/HEC.

 2 English composition (MCQs)
 Aptitude test component Mathematics (MCQs)
 3 Aptitude test - difﬁculty level SAT-I and SAT-II (Mathematics)
 83 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25


 Mathematics
 BS-Mathematics applicants must possess a mathematics
 background at the high school level.
 Applicants must have completed:
 Higher secondary school certiﬁcate (Pre-engineering
 or
 General group with mathematics) with minimum 60% marks
 or
 A level (minimum of 1 ‘B’ and 2 ‘C’s)
 in 3 principal subjects including Mathematics
 or
 American high school diploma minimum of 80%
 or
 An international baccalaureate (minimum 24/45)
Note: All international certiﬁcate/degree holders must provide an
 equivalency
 certiﬁcate from IBCC/HEC.
 English composition (MCQs)
 Mathematics (MCQs)
 SAT-I

 4 Aptitude test exemption** - Refer to the next page - Refer to the next page

 5 Student proﬁle Avg. age: 19 Avg. age: 19

 41 courses, 131 credit
 6 hours, 1 research project, 40 courses, 128 credit hours,
 Graduation requirement responsible citizen 1 research project
 initiative (RCI), corporate internship
 Personal effectiveness course (PE)


 7 Click here to view the fee structure https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee-
 Fees Click here to view the fee structure https://www.iba.edu.pk/fee-structure.php structure.php
 8 Classes start August August
 9 Duration 4 years full time 4 years full time
 10 Campus main/city main/city
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 84





 BSCS & BS Mathematics Program – SAT I





 A score of 670 (out of 800) in Mathematics

 A score of 600 (out of 800) in Evidence-Based
 Reading and Writing
* Criteria for IBA Scores of Essays are not required for the purposes
 Aptitude Test of admission, however, may preferably be
 exemptions submitted for placement in English courses
 subsequent to admission

 BSAF, BSCS, BSECO and BSEM program – ACT

 A Composite Score of 28 (out of 36)

 Score of English / Writing is not required for the
 purposes of admission, however, may preferably
 be submitted for placement in English courses
 subsequent to admission
---
 85 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 S. No. Information Master of Science (MS) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
 Mathematics
 Computer Science Data Science Computer Mathematics
 Science
 full time part time
 A minimum of 16 years of education A minimum of 16 years of education culminating in
 (culminating in BS or equivalent degree) degree (such as Computer Science, Statistics,
 out of which 4 years should have been Economics, Mathematics, Accounts & Finance, A minimum of 16 years of education (culminating in BS/MSc -
 spent in an HEC recognized Physics, etc.) and Engineering (Electrical Mathematics, Physics, Computer Science, MS/MPhil/equivalent in relevant subject from HEC
 1 Admission requirement university/degree awarding institute with Engineering, Electronics Engineering, Or recognized local/foreign university with:
 2.5 CGPA on a scale of 4.00 etc.) out of which 4 years should have been spent in Statistics) out of which 4 years should have been spent in an HEC minimum 60% aggregate marks (Percentage is only
 an HEC recognized university/degree awarding recognized university/degree awarding institute with 2.5 CGPA on considered if CGPA is not available) in the last degree
 Or institute with 2.5 CGPA on a scale of 4.00 or 60% a scale of 4.00 or
 marks in the last degree (whichever is applicable). Or
 60% marks in the last degree (whichever Percentage is only considered if CGPA is not 60% marks in the last degree (whichever is applicable). A minimum 3.0 CGPA on a scale of 4.00 in the last degree
 is applicable). Percentage is only available. Percentage is only considered if CGPA is not available. where applicable
 considered if CGPA is not available. also must fulﬁll speciﬁc requirements by
 Note: All international certiﬁcate/degree holders Note: All international certiﬁcate/degree holders must provide an the respective departments
 Note: All international certiﬁcate/degree must provide an equivalency certiﬁcate from equivalency certiﬁcate from IBCC/HEC.
 holders must provide an equivalency IBCC/HEC.
 certiﬁcate from IBCC/HEC.

 Fall Semester (for NON-CS stream only) - English
 - English (MCQs) composition
 • English composition (MCQs) - Mathematics (MCQs) (MCQs) - English composition (MCQs)
 2 Aptitude test component • Mathematics (MCQs) - English composition (MCQs)
 Spring Semester (for CS stream only) - Mathematics (MCQs) - Mathematics - Mathematics (MCQs)
 • Subject specialization - English (MCQs) (MCQs)
 - Mathematics (MCQs) - Subject
 - Computer Science (MCQs) specialization

 3 Aptitude test - GRE general + specialization GRE general TOEFL or IELTS CS subject test TOEFL or IELTS
 difﬁculty level GRE (int’l) math subjective test GRE Math subjective test

 Minimum 600 scores
 Aptitude test 160 in quantitative and 150 in verbal GRE in GMAT / 160 in 160 in quantitative 60 percentile in
 4 Quantitative & 150 60 percentile in GRE (int’l) Maths subjective test and 150 in GRE (int’l) Maths
 exemption (int’l) in the Verbal section verbal GRE (int’l) subjective test
 of GRE required
 5 Student proﬁle Avg. age: mid 20s Avg. age: mid 20s Avg. age: mid 20s Avg. age: 26
 8 courses,
 MS without Thesis 9 courses (27 credit 18 credit hours,
 hours) and a MS Project (3 credit hours), MS without Thesis 9 courses (27 credit hours) and a 6 core courses, comprehensive 6 courses,
 6 Graduation requirement or MS with Thesis: 8 courses (24 credit MS Project (3 credit hours), or MS with Thesis: 8 2 electives, exam, 18 credit hours,
 hours), MS Thesis-I (3 credit hours) and courses (24 credit hours), MS Thesis-I (3 credit hours) 24 credit hours, Proposal Defense, comprehensive exam,
 MS Thesis-II (3 credit hours) and MS Thesis-II (3 credit hours) thesis 6 credit hours and dissertation
 Dissertation,
 12 credit hours

 Click here to
 7 Fees Click here to view the fee structure Click here to view the fee structure Click here to view the fee structure view the fee Click here to view the fee structure
 structure
start 8 Classes August August August & January
 August August
 9 Duration 2 years 2 years 2 years 4 years
 10 Campus city main main/city main/city
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 86
Bachelor of Science (BS) Computer Science Required courses, internships and project
The Bachelor of Science (BS) in Computer Science is a comprehensive 4-year degree designed to develop
skilled professionals with strong problem-solving capabilities in Computer Science (CS) and related ﬁelds. Section Course category Courses Credit hours
This program also prepares students for roles in research and development. The curriculum consists of 135
units, distributed as follows: general education (19 units), CS core courses (56 units), CS electives (21 units),
program core courses (21 units), and general electives (9 units). A General Education 08 19

The program’s core and general elective courses are drawn from supporting disciplines such as Core B CS 16 56
Mathematics, Statistics, Physics, Accounting, Economics, Finance, Human Resource Management,
Marketing, Management, and Social Sciences & Liberal Arts. This diverse selection of core and elective
courses is carefully structured to provide students with the ﬂexibility to pursue a professional career path Electives C CS 07 21
that aligns with their interests.

Graduates of the CS program have successfully launched entrepreneurial start-ups and secured positions in D Program Core 07 21
esteemed software houses, ICT companies, ﬁnancial institutions, business solution providers, and
multinational corporations. E General Electives 03 09
Eligibility criteria
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 83-85. F Final Year Project 01 06

 Curriculum structure G Internship 01 03
 H Personal Effectiveness 01 -
 Duration 4
 Total 135
 Semesters 8

 Courses 45

 Final Year Project 1

 Internship 1

 Personal Effectiveness 1
 OE 5T R A W #4 T 'C R E W
---
 87 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
A. GENERAL EDUCATION COURSES B. CS CORE COURSES
 Course title Credit Course code Course title Credit hours
 hours
 CSE101 Introduction Computing to 3
 General Education
 CSE141 Introduction Programming to 4
 Entrepreneurship 02
 CSE142 Object Oriented Programming Techniques 4
 Civic and Community Engagement 02
 CSE341 Database Systems 4
 Applications of Information, Communication and Technology 03
 CSE241 Digital Logic Design 4
 Islamic Scholarly Tradition/Philosophy Logic and Ethics (Islamic 02
 Studies/Ethics) CSE247 Data Structures 4

 Pakistan History (Ideology and Constitution of Pakistan) 02 CSE468 Information Security and Ethics 3

 Art and Humanities 02 CSE307 Introduction to Artiﬁcial Intelligence 3

 Speech Communication 03 CSE248 Computer Communication & Networking 4

 Business Communication 03 CSE312 Software Engineering 3

 Social Science Elective– Select from a pool of Social Science 03 Computer Architecture & Assembly
 courses CSE345 Language 4

 *All Muslim students are required to register for Islamic Scholarly Tradition (IST), CSE331 Operating Systems 3
 Non-Muslim students may take Philosophy Logic and Ethics (PLE).
 CSE317 Design & Analysis of Algorithm 3

 CSE309 Theory Automata of 3

 CSE407 Human Computer Interaction 3

 CSE467 Parallel and Distributed Computing 4
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 88
C. CS ELECTIVE COURSES
Students can select any of the seven CS elective courses. Currently, the following D. PROGRAM CORE
elective courses are being offered:
 Course code Course title Credit hours Pre-requisite Course title Credit
 Course code hours
 CSE308 Web Based Application 3 CSE341
 Development
 CSE450 Application Development for Mobile 3 - MTS101 Calculus I 3
 Devices
 CSE466 Technology Product Development 3 CSE312
 MTS113 Calculus II 3
 CSE475 Compiler Construction 3 -
 CSE465 Competitive Programming 3 CSE247 MTS211 Discrete Mathematics 3

 CSE356 Rust Programming 3 CSE142 3
 MTS102 Introduction Statistics to
 CSE318 Design Patterns 3 CSE247
 MTS203 Linear Algebra 3
 CSE476 Software Architecture & Design 3 -

 CSE474 Introduction DevOps to 3 - MTS306 Numerical Analysis 3
 CSE343 Data Warehousing 3 CSE341
 SCI102 Physics 3
 CSE459 Business Intelligence 3 CSE307

 CSE454 Introduction to Computer Vision 3 CSE248
 E. GENERAL ELECTIVE
 CSE462 Introduction to Image Processing 3 CSE247 Students must select three general courses (at least nine credit hours) from any discipline other
 than Computer Science, including: Mathematics, Statistics, Accounting, Economics, Finance,
 CSE472 Introduction Machine to Learning 3 - Marketing, Management, Social Sciences & Liberal Arts.

 CSE471 Neural Networks and Deep Learning 3 CSE307 F. FINAL YEAR PROJECT
 Students must complete a ﬁnal year project of 06 credit hours as a compulsory degree requirement.
 CSE473 Introduction to Text Analytics 3 -
 Introduction to Network Data 3 - G. INTERNSHIP th
 CSE469 Analysis Students must engage in a corporate internship of 03 credit hours after completing their 6
 semester of the coursework, preferably during the summer break.
 CSE460 Robotics 3 CSE307
 3 - H. PERSONAL EFFECTIVENESS th semester for BS Computer Science students. This is a
 CSE355 Introduction to Blockchain Personal Effectiveness is offered in the 6
 non-credit course and is a part of the graduation requirement. It consists of ﬁve 2-hour workshops
 CSE352 Computer Graphics 3 - distributed over the whole semester.
 CSE353 Game Design and Development 3 -

 CSE358 Elements of Game Design 3 -

 CSE470 Introduction to Cryptography 3 -

 CSE357 Computer Security 3 -

 CSE455 Network Security 3 CSE341

 CSE463 Introduction to Bioinformatics 3 CSE247
---
 89 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
SEMESTER-WISE SEQUENCE OF COURSES
 Semester 1 Semester 3
 Title Credit Pre-requisite C ategory Credit
 Code hours Code Title Pre-requisite Category
 hours
 CSE101 Introduction to Core 3 - CS Digital Logic Design 4 CSE101, MTS211 CS Core
 Computing CSE142

 CSE141 Introduction to Core 4 - CS HUM20 Data Structures 4 CSE142, MTS211 CS Core
 Programming

 MTS101 Calculus-I 3 - Program Core
 SCI102 Linear Algebra 3 MTS101 Program Core
 MTS102 Introduction to Statistics 3 - Program Core

 General MTS211 Numerical Analysis 3 MTS113 Program Core
 SSC301 Islamic Scholarly Tradition 2 - Education
 Social Science Elective 3 - General
 - Civics and Community 2 - General - Education
 Engagement Education

 Semester 2 Semester 4
 Code Title Credit Category Code Title Credit Category
 hours Pre-requisite hours Pre-requisite

 CSE142 Object Oriented Programming 4 CSE141 Core CS CSE307 Introduction to Artiﬁcial 3 Core CS
 Techniques Intelligence CSE247

 HUM20 Speech Communication 3 - General CSE248 Computer Communication 4 CSE101, CS Core
 Education & Networking CSE142

 SCI102 Physics 3 - Program CSE309 Theory of
 Automata 3 CSE141, CS Core
 Core MTS211

 MTS211 Discrete Mathematics 3 MTS101 Program Computer Architecture & CSE241,
 Core CSE345 Assembly Language 4 CS Core
 CSE247

 MTS113 Calculus-II 3 MTS101 Program General
 Core SSC151 Pakistan History 2 - Education

 - Arts and Humanities 2 - General General
 Education - Entrepreneurship 2 - Education
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 90
 Semester 5 Summer Semester
 Code Title Credit hours Pre- Category
 requisite
 Code Title Credit hours
 CSE312 Software Engineering 3 CSE247 CS Core

 CSE331 Operating Systems 3 CSE345 CS Core - Internship 3

 CSE341 Semester 7
 Database Systems 4 CSE247 CS Core
 Code Title Credit Pre- Category
 MGT211 Business Communication 3 HUM201 General hours requisite
 Education
 CSE407 Human Computer Interaction 3 CSE312 CS Core
 CSE- CS Elective-I 3 - CS Elective
 CSE493 Final Year Project - CS - CSE312, -
 CSE341
 Semester 6
 CSE- CS Elective-I V 3 - CS Elective
 Code Title Credit Pre- Category
 hours requisite CSE- CS Elective-V 3 - CS Elective

 - General Elective-II 3 - General Elective
 CSE317 Design & Analysis of 3 CSE247 Core CS
 Algorithm
 Parallel and Distributed Semester 8
CSE467 Computing 4 CSE331 CoreCS
 Code Title Credit Pre- Category
 CSE- CS Elective-I I 3 - CS Elective hours requisite

 CSE- CS Elective-III 3 - CS Elective CSE468 Information Security and 3 MGT211 Core CS
 Ethics
 - General Elective-I 3 - General
 Elective CSE494 Final Year Project - ll 6 CSE493 -

 CSE- CS Elective-VI 3 CS Elective
 SSC240 Personal Effectiveness - - -
 CSE- CS Elective-VI I 3 CS Elective

 - General Elective-III 3 General
 - Elective
---
 91 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
 New Minor Programs Core and Elective Courses for Computer Science Minor
 The department of Computer Science is offers minors in the following areas: Students opting for a minor in computer science must complete the following courses:
 Data Science Computer Science Software Engineering

 General Requirements for a Minor Core Courses for Computer Science Minor
 The minor programs consist of a set of courses that students must complete to earn the minor. S. No Course Course code
 The general requirements for a minor are as follows: 1 Data Structures 247 CSE
 • Students opting for a minor must have a minimum CGPA of 3.0/4.0. 2 Design and Analysis of Algorithms CSE 317
 • Students opting for a minor must have done following courses (in computing and 3 Database Systems 341 CSE
 mathematics) with a minimum grade point of 3.0/4.0:

 S. No Course Course code Elective Courses for Computer Science Minor
 1 Introduction Applications Computer to MIS103* Student must choose two courses from the following list (subject to availability):
 2 Calculus I - MTS101 S. No Course Course code
 3 Calculus II - MTS113 Computer Communication and CSE 248
 4 Linear Algebra MTS203 1 Networking
 5 Introduction Statistics to MTS102 2 Web Based Application Development CSE 308
 *The revised curriculum, as of Fall 2023. 3 Theory Automata of 309 CSE
 4 Software Engineering 312 CSE
 • The minor will consist of 5 courses ( ≥ 15 credit hours). 5 Operating Systems 331 CSE
 These minor programs are mainly designed for students of IBA who are interested in computing Application Development for Mobile CSE 450
 but are not majoring in computer science. The minors will provide them with a foundational 6 Devices
 understanding of computing concepts and skills, which can complement their major ﬁeld of 7 Introduction to Cryptography CSE 470
 study. Since all students at IBA go through a rigorous training in quantitative methods, the 8 Introduction to Machine Learning CSE 472
 minors will build on this foundation and provide students with a more in-depth understanding 9 Cloud Computing CSE 584
 of computing and its applications. Any other program approved 3xx/4xx -
 10 level course in computer science
 Core and Elective Courses for Data Science Minor
 Students opting for a minor in data science must complete the following courses: Core and Elective Courses for Software Engineering Minor
 Core Courses for Data Science Minor Students opting for a minor in software engineering must complete the following courses:
 S. No Course Course code Core Courses for Software Engineering Minor
 1 Data Structures CSE247 S. No Course Course code
 2 Database Systems CSE341 1 Data Structures CSE247
 3 Introduction to Machine Learning CSE472 2 Software Engineering CSE312
 4 Business Intelligence Data / CSE343 3 Database Systems CSE341
 Warehousing
 Note: The other course can be taken as an elective. Elective Courses for Software Engineering Minor
Elective Courses for Data Science Minor Student must choose two courses from the following list (subject to availability):
Student must choose one course from the following list (subject to availability) S. No Course Course code
 S. No Course Course code 1 Web Based Application Development CSE 308
 1 Introduction Computer to Vision CSE454 2 Application Development for Mobile CSE 450
 2 Neural and Networks Deep Learning CSE471 Devices
 3 Introduction Analytics
 Text to CSE473 3 Introduction to DevOps CSE 474
 4 Software Architecture CSE 476
 4 Any other program approved 3xx/4xx - 5 Software Project Management CSE 503
 level course in computer science 6 Software Quality Assurance CSE 566
 7 Any other program approved 3xx/4xx -
 level course in computer science
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 92
Bachelor of Science (BS) Mathematics Program structure
Bachelor of Science (BS) Mathematics at IBA is a 4-year degree program. Its uniqueness lies in the offer of Course category Courses Credit hours
earning concentrations in allied areas of sciences while adhering to the mathematics core. The ﬂexibility and
diversity that this scheme offers to students in studying mathematics aligned with the current common University Core 4 12
structure of the BS-Math programs worldwide while keeping in line with HEC guidelines. Regular academic,
as well as professional career development guidance is also available to students to help them cope with Mathematics Core 17 51
challenges more effectively.

This program prepares graduates with diverse skills, attributes, and ﬁeld knowledge, which are critical Mathematics Elective 4 12
ingredients for a successful applied sciences career. Restricted Elective 3 9
The program aims to equip students with sufﬁcient analytical and computational skills for a successful
corporate career, a career in education, or a career in industry. A diverse skillset will also enable students to Science Core 6 21
seek promising careers in research and development in mathematics and related ﬁelds, applied sciences,
engineering sciences, actuarial sciences, economics, data sciences, quantitative ﬁnance, computing, University Breadth 4 10
banking, and statistics, and post-graduate study in mathematics, and theoretical physics as well as university
teaching. Free Elective 3 9
Eligibility criteria Final Year Project 1 3
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 83-85. 3 Internship 1
 Curriculum structure Entrepreneurship 1 2
 Duration 4 Civic and community
 Semesters 8 engagement 1 2
 Courses 45
 Research Project 1 Total 134 45
 Total credit hours 134

 Restricted elective courses:
 Mathematical Physics electives
 - Quantum Mechanics II
 - Advanced Quantum Mechanics
 - Introduction to Quantum Field Theory
 - Electrodynamics and Special Relativity
 - Quantum Information - Statistical Mechanics
 - Algebraic Quantum Theory
 - General Relativity
 3 - Computational Physics
 - Stochastic Processes in Physics
---
 93 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Computational Mathematics electives Semester-wise sequence of courses
 • Introduction to Scientiﬁc Computing
 • Numerical Solutions of PDE Course Credit Pre-
 • Scientiﬁc Computing for Linear PDE’s Freshman Semester - 1 code hours Course type requisite
 • Computational Physics 1 Calculus-1 MTS101 3 Mathematics -
 • Computational Quantum Field Theory Core
 • Monte-Carlo Methods 2 Discrete Mathematics MTS211 3 Mathematics -
 • Financial Mathematics with a computational approach Core
 3 Introduction to CSE141 4 Core Science -
 • Scientiﬁc Computing for Linear PDE’s Programming
 • Computational Physics 4 Critical Reading and SSC101 3 University -
 • Computational Quantum Field Theory writing Core
 • Monte-Carlo Methods Islamic Scholarly SSC301 / University -
 • Financial Mathematics with a computational approach 5 Tradition or Philosophy, HUM357 3 Core
 Logic, and Ethics*
 • Financial Mathematics
 • Operations Research Semester - 2 Course code Credit Course type Pre-
 • Computational Finance hours requisite
 1 Calculus- II MTS232 3 Mathematics -
Data and Statistics electives Core
 2 Linear Algebra MTS203 3 Mathematics -
 • Introduction to Data Science Core
 • Introduction to Data Mining 3 Object Oriented - Core - 4 Science
 • Bayesian Statistics Programming
 • Stochastic Processes Techniques
 • Time Series Analysis 4 Speech HUM203 3 University -
 Communication Core
 • Econometrics
 • Applied Multivariate Statistics 5 Entrepreneurship - 2 - -
 • Simulation and Computational Statistics
 • Statistical Machine Learning
 • Neural Networks Sophomore Semester - 3 Course Credit Course type Pre-
 • Financial Econometrics code hours requisite
 1 Multivariable Calculus MTS242 3 Mathematics MTS232
 Core
 2 Introduction to MTS241 3 Mathematics MTS101
 differential Equations Core
 3 Fundamentals of Mathematics - 3 -
 Statistics Core
 4 Mechanics PHY101 3 Core Science -

 5 Civic and Community - 2 -
 Engagement

 6 - - 2 University -
 Breadth
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 94

 Course Credit Summer Semester
 Semester – 4 code hours Course type Pre-requisite
 1 Probability Theory - 3 Mathematics Core 1 Internship Internship Internship 3

 2 Electricity, Magnetism & PHY102 Core Science 3
 waves Senior Semester - 7 Course code Credit
 hours Course type Pre-requisite
 3 Differential Geometry MTS435 Mathematics Core MTS203,
 3
 MTS204 1 Restricted Elective - 3 Data and Statistics -
 4 Ideas Mathematics - in Mathematics Core elective (Restricted
 3 Elective)
 5 - 2 Math Elective I - 3 Math Elective I -
 Pakistan History 3 University Core 3 Math Elective II - 3 Math Elective II -
 SSC151 4 University Breadth - 3 University Breadth -
 6 - - 5 Free Elective - 3 Free Elective -
 2 University Breadth 6 Final Year Project - 3 FYP -

 Semester - 5 Course Credit Course type Pre-requisite Semester - 8 Course Credit Course type Pre-requisite
Junior code hours code hours
 1 Real Analysis - Mathematics Core - 1 Math Elective III - 3 Math Elective III -
 3 2 Math Elective IV - 3 Math Elective IV -
 2 Statistical Modeling MTS202 3 Mathematics Core MTS102
 3 Numerical Analysis MTS306 3 Mathematics Core MTS232 3 University Breadth University - 3 -
 Breadth
 4 Introduction to PHY4xx 3 Science Core - 4 Free Elective - 3 Free Elective -
 Quantum Mechanics
 5 Data Structures CSE247 4 Science Core CSE141 5 Free Elective - 3 Free Elective -

 HEC category No. of courses Credit hours
 Semester - 6 Course Credit Course type Pre-requisite General 12 33
 code hours Major 24 72
 1 Topology I MTS451 - Core Mathematics 3 Interdisciplinary 4 14
 2 Abstract Algebra MTS305 3 Mathematics Core MTS203 Capstone Project 1 3
 3 Mathematical MTS3xx 3 - Internship 1 3
 Methods Mathematics Core Minor* 3 9
 4 Partial Differential - 3 Mathematics Core - Total 45 134
 Equations
 5 Restricted Elective - Mathematical 3 - * Free electives/concentration/minor declaration policy in BS (Mathematics) program. Free elective
 Physics elective courses facilitate interdisciplinary study and provide a broader vision to the students. In the BS
 (Restricted Elective) (Mathematics) program, students can (optionally) earn a concentration on their transcripts according to
 6 Restricted Elective - 3 Computational - the following plan.
 Mathematics Elective
 (Restricted Elective) Computer Science (3 additional courses with CS code, 300 level and beyond, apart from the CS required
 courses that are part of the core).

 Data Analytics (3 additional courses from Data and Statistics Stream, 300 level and beyond, apart from
 the one required course from this stream that is counted as a restricted elective).

 Physics (3 additional courses from Mathematical Physics Stream, 300 level and beyond, apart from the
 one required course from this stream that is counted as a restricted elective) Concentration / minor will
 not be mentioned on the degree; however, they will be shown on the mark sheet.
---
 95 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Master of Science (MS) Computer Science
The Department of Computer Science at IBA, under the School of Mathematics and Computer Science
(SMCS) is an exciting place to learn about the latest developments in Computer Science as well as to perform MS without Thesis
research with a high social impact. The MS program comprises of 4 tracks, each completely aimed at a
particular ﬁeld of specialization in Computer Science. The diverse backgrounds of students that come from Course category Course Credit
various ﬁelds of study into this program require a customized and tailored approach towards building the hours Total
relevant fundamentals for each track. Moreover, the curriculum has been designed so that it is at par with
IEEE/Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) guidelines. This ensures that the tracks do not lose 1 CS electives 9 3 27
relevance in the wake of a rapidly changing landscape of computing technologies. The potential of this Equivalent to
program in terms of imparting useful advanced computing skills and professional growth is measured by 2 MS Project 1 course 3 3
the readiness of the job market and advanced learning schools in absorbing graduates. The curriculum 10
design ensures that the graduates can creatively ﬁnd technology-based solutions, think critically and Total 30 30
analyze systems and emerging problems independently. MSCS has the following 4 tracks, respective courses in each track are listed below
 (each course has its pre-requisites and is subject to the instructor’s consent).
Eligibility criteria
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 83-85. List of specialization tracks
 Tracks Specialization Criteria
Duration
The minimum duration of the program is 2 years, comprising 4 semesters. Total credit hours are 30. 1 AI/Intelligent Systems (Track-AI) Required to take minimum one course
 - no limit on maximum courses
 2 Information Systems and Software Required to take minimum one course
Required courses Engineering (Track -ISSE) - no limit on maximum courses
The Master of Science Computer Science (MSCS) program has two basic categories: MS with Thesis and MS 3 Network Centric Computing/ Required to take minimum one course
without Thesis. In both categories, the student should complete 30 credit hours. In MS with Thesis, the Systems (Track-NCC) - no limit on maximum courses
student needs to complete 18 credit hours to be eligible for taking MS Thesis I (research work) and MS Thesis Required to take minimum one course
II (thesis work) of 3 credit hours each over two semesters. In MS without Thesis, the student needs to 4 Theory (Track-Theory) - no limit on maximum courses
complete 24 credit hours to register for the MS Project, which is a one semester, 3 credit hour
implementation of a solution to solve an industrial problem related to any domain of computer science.
 Track-AI courses
In the MS Thesis, the student is required to discover an innovative algorithm, methodology, framework,
entity, or an application, which is clearly distinguishable from the state-of-the-art research. Then, the student Tracks Course code Course title
implements this innovation and attempts to demonstrate that it works or performs better or at least at par 1 MIS552 Advanced Data Warehousing
with current research trends. Finally, the student will attempt to publish these ﬁndings in a conference,
workshop, symposium or journal paper. In the MS Project, the student implements a small-scale product, 2 CSE668 Big Data Analytics
software, API, solution or similar entity to preferably address a current industrial need or requirement. The
MS Project can also implement an innovative and unique idea of the student or supervisor which might 3 CSE607 Bioinformatics Algorithms
become useful for the industry later. For more information, visit: HTTPs://cs.iba.edu.pk/msthesisproject/. 4 CSE659 Computational Intelligence
The coursework may be taken from more than one of the 4 specialization tracks, with a student required to 5 CSE660 Computer Vision
take a minimum of one course from each track with no limit on the maximum number of courses per track. 6 CSE510 Data and Information Visualization
Each track has its own set of prerequisites which are usually BS-level Computer Science courses. MS students 7 CSE679 Data Science Product Development
may also take courses at the PhD (600) level for credit.
 8 CSE669 Deep Learning
 The breakdown of credit hours for both MSCS is as follows: 9 CSE559 Image Processing
MS with Thesis 10 CSE602 Machine Learning-I
 11 CSE603 Machine Learning-II
 Course category Course Credit hours Total 12 CSE601 Mathematics for Data Science
 1 CS electives 8 3 24 13 CSE574 Natural Language Processing
 Equivalent to 14 CSE655 Probabilistic Reasoning
 2 MS Thesis-I 1 course 3 3 15 CSE661 Semantic Web
 3 MS Thesis-Il Equivalent to 3 3 16 CSE670 Social Network Analysis
 1 course 17 CSE674 Text Analytics
 Total 10 - 30
---
 PROGRAM 96
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Track-ISSE courses Track-NCC courses
 Tracks Course code Course title Course code Course title
 1 CSE575 Advance Human Comp Interaction 1 ICT511 Advanced Computer Networks
 2 MIS565 Advanced E-Commerce
 3 CSE570 Digital Business Transformation 2 CSE550 Cloud Security
 4 MIS503 Enterprise Integration 3 ICT651 Computer Comm Network & Simulation
 5 MIS513 Information Industry Structure and Competitive Strategy 4 CSE582 Cyber Security Operations
 6 CSE665 Information Retrieval and Web Search - I 5 CSE580 Essentials of Information Security
 7 CSE666 Information Retrieval and Web Search - II 6 CSE565 Internet of Things
 8 CSE658 Knowledge Management and e-learning Systems 7 CSE675 Software Deﬁned Networking
 9 MIS550 Logistics and Supply Chain Management 8
 10 MIS553 Mobile Marketing Strategies ICT659 Wireless Sensor Networks
 11 MIS502 Operations and Technology Management 9 ICT662 WSN Protocols and Applications
 12 CSE567 Requirements Engineering
 13 CSE640 Research Methodology
 14 MIS601 Research Methods in IS Track-Theory courses
 15 CSE503 Software Project Management
 16 CSE566 Software Quality Assurance Course code Course title
 17 CSE564 Software Systems Engineering 1 CSE607 Bioinformatics Algorithms
 18 CSE576 Usability Engineering 2 CSE654 Combinatorial Optimization
 3 CSE581 Computational Complexity Theory
 4 CSE657 Essentials of Theoretical Computer Science
 5 CSF501 Introduction to Algorithms
 6 CSE662 Parallel Processing
 7 CSE527 Programming Quantum Computers
 8 CSE517 Quantum Computer Science
 9 CSE680 Research Topics in Quantum Computing
 10 MIS651 Theoretical Foundations of IS
---
 97 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

Master of Science (MS) Data Science Required courses
 The MSDS program has two basic categories: MS with Thesis and MS without Thesis. In MS with Thesis, the
The ﬁeld of data science lies at the intersection of machine learning, probability, statistics, linear algebra and student needs to complete 18 credit hours to take MS Thesis I (research work) and MS Thesis II (thesis work)
big data analytics. Offered by the School of Mathematics and Computer Science (SMCS), the MS in Data of 3 credit hours each over two semesters. In MS without Thesis, the student needs to complete 24 credit
Science (MSDS) program prepares students to extract valuable insights from data through a unique and hours to implement the MS Project, a one semester, 3 credit hour implementation of an industrial
comprehensive methodology. The program is designed for students who want to begin or advance their solution to solve a data science problem.
careers in the ﬁeld of data science. It provides a powerful base in subjects including statistical modeling, In the MS Thesis, the student is required to discover an innovative algorithm, methodology, framework,
probabilistic reasoning, machine learning, management of massive data sets, data visualization, and entity, or an application, which is clearly distinguishable from the state-of-the-art research. Then, the student
software engineering. The program targets both CS and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and implements this innovation and attempts to demonstrate that it works or performs better or at least at par
Mathematics) students and prepares them to apply the knowledge of data science to a wide range of with current research trends. Finally, the student will attempt to publish these ﬁndings in a conference,
corporate domains. Non-CS/SE/IT students are required to take non-credit foundation-level courses in workshop, symposium or journal paper. In the MS Project, the student implements a small-scale product,
algorithms, data management and application development. These courses prepare them for the core and software, API, solution or similar entity to preferably address some current industrial need or requirement.
more advanced data science courses alongside students with a CS, IT or SE background. The MSDS core The MS Project can also implement some innovative and unique ideas of the student or supervisor which
courses strengthen the students’ understanding of mathematical concepts that form the basis of machine might become useful for the industry later. For more information, visit: https://cs.iba.edu.pk/msthesisproject/.
learning and statistical modeling along with both theoretical and hands-on skills in big data management
and analytics. Students can opt from a range of electives including, but not limited to deep learning, text
analytics, computer vision, business intelligence, time series analysis, information retrieval and social network Program Structure
analysis. The potential of this program in terms of imparting useful and advanced data science skills and The MSDS program is for 4 semesters with a total of 39 credit hours. The following structure will be followed
professional growth is measured by the readiness of the job market and advanced learning schools in for MS with Thesis and MS without Thesis:
absorbing graduates. The curriculum design ensures that the graduates can creatively ﬁnd
technology-based solutions, think critically and analyze systems and emerging problems independently. MS with Thesis
Hence, the vision of MSDS is to train students to create an impact of data science in the local and international
industries. Section Course title Course Credit hours

Eligibility criteria. A Foundation courses 3 9
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 83-85. B Core courses 3 9

Duration C Electives 5 15
For the non-CS/IT/SE students who take the foundation-level courses, the total minimum duration is 2.5 years
(with a total of 5 semesters). For the CS/IT/SE students, the total minimum duration is 2 years (with a total of D Thesis (MS Thesis I and MS Thesis II) 2 6
4 semesters). MSDS courses are not offered in the two-month long summer semester. Total 13 39

 MS without Thesis
 Section Course title Course Credit hours

 A Foundation courses 3 9

 B Core courses 3 9

 C Electives 6 18

 D MS Project 1 3
 Total 13 39

 The breakdown of foundation and core courses is as follows:

 Section Foundation courses (Forstudentswith Course code Credit hours Pre-
 non-CS background) requisite
 1 Introduction to Algorithms CSF501 3 -

 2 Database Management CSF505 3 -

 3 Application Development CSF510 3 -
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 98
 Core courses Note: BS (CS/SE/IT) graduates are exempted from the foundation courses. For other candidates,
 Clear all foundation the interview panel will decide which foundation courses they will be exempted from.
 1 Mathematics for Data Science CSE601 3 courses/
 CS-background In each academic year, students with non-CS backgrounds will be inducted only in the
 Fall semester, and students with a CS background with be inducted only in the Spring semester.
 Clear all foundation
 2 Machine Learning - I (Supervised Learning) CSE602 3 courses/
 CS-background The semester-wise breakup along with credit hours as follows:

 Clear all foundation Semester 0 (Foundation courses) Credit hours Course type
 3 Big Data Analytics CSE668 3 courses/
 CS-background
 1 Introduction to Algorithms 3 Foundation
The potential list of offered electives is as follows: 2 Database Management 3 Foundation

 Electives Course 3 Application Development 3 Foundation
 Credit Pre-requisite
 (More courses may be added to this list) code hours
 Semester 1 Credit hours Course type
 1 Probabilistic Reasoning CSE655 3 Maths for DS, ML-1 1 Mathematics for Data Science 3 Core
 2 Computational Intelligence CSE659 3 Maths for DS, ML-1 2 Machine Learning - I (Supervised Learning) 3 Core
 3 Computer Vision CSE660 3 Maths for DS, 3 Big Data Analytics 3 Core
 ML-1
 4 Computational Intelligence CSE659 3 Maths for DS, ML-1
 Maths for DS, Semester 2 Credit hours Course type
 5 Information Retrieval CSE665 3 ML-1
 Maths for DS, 1 Elective 1 3 Elective
 6 Deep Learning CSE669 3 ML-1
 2 Elective 2 3 Elective
 7 Social Network Analysis CSE670 3 Maths for DS, ML-1 3 Elective 3 3 Elective
 8 Deep Learning CSE673 3 Maths for DS, ML-1
 Maths for DS,
 9 Text Analytics CSE674 3 ML-1 Semester 3 Credit hours Course type
 10 Machine Learning-II (Unsupervised Learning) CSE603 3 Maths for DS, 1 Elective 4 3 Elective
 ML-1
 11 Data and Information Visualization CSE510 3 Completion of all core 2 Elective 5 3 Elective
 courses
 Completion of all core 3 Elective 6 or MS Thesis-I 3 Elective / Thesis
 12 Internet of Things CSE565 3 courses
 13 Cyber Security Operations CSE582 3 Completion of all core
 courses Semester 4 Credit hours Course type
 14 Cloud Security CSE550 3 Completion of all core
 courses 1 MS Project or MS Thesis-II 3 Project / Thesis

 For further details, please email at: msds-queries@iba.edu.pk or msds@iba.edu.pk
---
 99 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

Master of Science (MS) Mathematics
MS in Mathematics aims to provide a thorough background in theory, quantitative methods, and
applications commensurate with international standards, offering the opportunity for a more specialized Required courses
training in selected areas of pure and applied mathematics.
 Course category Courses Credit
Eligibility criteria hours
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 83-85. Core units 6 18
Duration Elective units 2 6
The minimum duration of the program is 2 years. Literature survey 1 3
Teaching/research assistant positions: MS Thesis 1 3
Teaching/research assistant positions are available in the department for full-time MS students. These Total 10 30
positions are offered only to those students who maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.00 in each semester in the
MS program. Teaching/research assistants must not work elsewhere.

Part-time students MS without Thesis
Students can also join the program on a part-time basis (i.e., those students who are not offered or opting for Course category Courses Credit hours
ﬁnancial assistance) on the condition that they cannot register in more than 3 courses in semesters.
 Core units 6 18
 Elective units 4 12
Requirements for the award of MS Mathematics degree Literature survey 0 0
a) Complete 30 credit hours that include 24 credit hours (8 courses) of coursework and 6 credit
 hours of thesis. Research work units 0 0
b) Six courses (mentioned in the list) at the 500 level are core courses that every student must do. Total 10 30
c) In addition, a student must do two electives to be chosen from the list given at the 500 level. A
 student can also choose a PhD Mathematics course as an elective by acquiring approval from
 the Board of Studies Mathematical Sciences. Semester-wise sequence of courses
d) The eligibility for doing an MS thesis is a CGPA of 3.00. Course Credit Pre- Course
 Spring semester code hours requisite type
e) Students who do not qualify for the eligibility criteria for doing an MS thesis will be required to
 do two additional courses (6 credit hours in addition) and graduate with an MS degree (without
 thesis). Such MS graduates would not be eligible for doing a PhD Mathematics in the future 1 Advanced Real Analysis MTS511 3 - Core
 from IBA.

f) Public defense of the MS thesis and completion of the degree will be governed as per IBA’s 2 Topics in Algebra MTS513 3 - Core
 policy.

 For further details, visit: www.mathematics.iba.edu.pk 3 Probability and Mathematical MTS508 3 - Core
 Statistics

 4 Elective I MTSxxx 3 - Elective
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 100
 Pre- S. No Courses Course Credit Pre-
 S. No Fall semester Course code Credit
 hours requisite Course type code hours requisite
 13 Algebraic Geometry I MTS549 3 MTS514
 1 Scientiﬁc Computing I of PDE’s MTS576 3 - Core 14 Scientiﬁc Computing and Software MTS551 3 MTS521

 2 Topics in Number Theory MTS562 3 - Core 15 Algebraic Cycles I MTS553 3 MTS513
 16 Arithmetic Algebraic Geometry MTS557 3 MTS513
 3 Topology and Geometry MTS575 3 - Core
 17 Exploratory Data Analysis MTS561 3 -

 4 Elective Il MTSxxx 3 - Elective 18 Mathematical Physics I - MTS565 3 -

 Course 19 Statistical Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery MTS569 3 -
 Semester 3 and4 code Credit
 hours Pre- Course
 requisite type 20 Statistical Machine Learning MTS573 3 -

 21 Galois Theory MTS577 3 MTS513
 1 Literature Survey MTS699 3 - Elective
 22 Smooth Manifolds MTS581 3 MTS510
 2 MS Thesis 3 - Elective
 *The Board of Studies Mathematical Sciences is authorized to introduce any new
 course added to the above list as and when required. Note: Any course of 600 level of
Elective courses Mathematics can be treated as an MS Mathematics elective.
 S. No Courses Course Credit Pre-
 code ho3 urs requisite
 1 Non-Linear Dynamics and Chaos MTS507 3 MTS203,
 MTS 241
 2 Measure Theory and Integration MTS512 3 MTS512

 3 Topics in Commutative Algebra MTS514 3 MTS513

 4 Scientiﬁc Computing MTS521 3 -

 5 Stochastic Processes II MTS525 3 MTS304

 6 Stochastic Differential Equations MTS529 3 MTS304

 7 Topics in Commutative Algebra MTS514 3 MTS513

 8 Integral Equations-I MTS533 3 -

 9 Mathematical Astronomy MTS537 3 -

 10 Homological Algebra MTS539 3 MTS513

 11 Computational Algebraic Geometry MTS541 3 MTS513

 MTS511,
 12 Applicable Modern Geometry I MTS545 3 MTS513,
 MTS616
---
 101 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

PhD Computer Science Courses*
PhDs in Computer Science are empowered to conduct cutting-edge research, gain recognition, and
maintain professional and academic networks. The IBA Department of Computer Science offers PhD Course title Course Credit Pre-
programs in various areas, including Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Text Analytics, Computer code hours requisite
Vision, Algorithms, Quantum Computing, Wireless and Mobile Communications, Multimedia and Web, and Machine Learning – I CSE602 3
Human-Computer Interaction. Machine Learning – II CSE603 3
The PhD-CS program aims to encourage graduate students to make signiﬁcant contributions to their ﬁeld Bioinformatics Algorithms CSE607 3 -
through original research. Participants in this program will have the opportunity to collaborate with Advanced Analysis of Algorithms CSE651 3 -
international researchers, publish scholarly articles, and attend prestigious conferences worldwide. The 3 -
program will enhance students’ quantitative and qualitative research skills and promote interdisciplinary Combinatorial Optimization CSE654
research and interaction with the local industry. Probabilistic Reasoning CSE655 3 -
 Computational Intelligence CSE659 3 -
The PhD-CS program fosters independence and originality in the research process. It requires residency of at Semantic Web CSE661 3 CSE665
least two years, during which students must complete a specially designed curriculum of advanced courses.
Throughout the residency, students are expected to collaborate closely with a supervisor in their ﬁeld of Parallel Processing CSE662 3 -
specialization. Information Retrieval and Web Search-I CSE665 3 -
 Information Retrieval and Web Search-II CSE666 3 -
Eligibility criteria Big Data Analytics CSE668 3 CSE248, MTS102
For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 83-85. Deep Learning CSE669 3 ICT651
 Social Network Analysis CSE141,
 CSE670 3 CSE248,
 Program Courses Credit MTS102
 hours Computer Communication Network and Simulation ICT651 3 ICT659
 Course Work 1,2 Computer Communication Network and Simulation II ICT654 3 CSE248
 A 6 18 Wireless Sensor Networks ICT659 3 -
 B Dissertation - 12 Advanced Topics In Wireless Sensor Networks ICT660 3 -
 WSN Protocols And Applications ICT662 3 MIS651
 Theoretical Foundations of IS MIS651 3 -
Rules: Advanced Research Topics In IS MIS652 3 -
 Advanced Theoretical Concepts in IS MIS653 3 -
◆ It is recommended that the coursework should be completed during the ﬁrst 3 semesters after *It is a partial list of courses
 admission.

◆ Students can take a maximum of 4 courses (12 credit hours) in each semester.
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 102
PhD Mathematics
PhD in Mathematics aims to polish an individual’s skills of using Mathematics as a compact language to
describe problems in any area. This enables them to theoretically expand the frontiers to create new and
formerly unknown avenues in this discipline.


Defense of PhD thesis proposal and thesis
PhD thesis proposal would have to be defended in front of two national examiners (selected and approved
by BOS and BASR). Public defense of the PhD thesis and completion of the degree will commence after the
thesis has been examined by two foreign external examiners (who will be selected as per the HEC policy).

 For further details, visit:
 Eligibility criteria
 For the eligibility criteria, refer to pages 83-85.
 List of courses
 Duration Course Credit Pre-
 The minimum duration of the program is 4 years and the maximum time allowed is 8 years. Courses
 Other rules code hours requisite
 ◆ A PhD student must spend at least the ﬁrst two years at the IBA as a full-time 1 Numerical Treatment of P.D.E. MTS621 3 MTS515
 PhD scholar. Failing to do so will result in termination from the program.
 2 Financial Mathematics MTS625 3 MTS537
 ◆ PhD students will be required to do six courses (chosen from the list below) at 600 level as
 suggested by the research supervisor and/or Board of Studies Mathematical Sciences. 3 Computational Astronomy MTS637 3 MTS545

 Courses 4 Applicable Modern Geometry Il MTS645 3 MTS549
 The Board of Studies Mathematical Sciences is authorized to introduce any new courses added to the 5 Algebraic Geometry II MTS649 3 MTS553
 following list as and when required. On successful completion of the course work with a CGPA of at least 3.00,
 the candidate qualiﬁes to take a comprehensive examination. Failing to achieve this qualiﬁcation, the 6 Algebraic Cycles II MTS653 3 MTS366
 candidate would be allowed to improve his/her CGPA by doing two of their courses again. In view of the
 candidate’s request and recommendation of the Board of Studies Mathematical Sciences, the candidate 7 Algebraic Curves MTS655 3 MTS557
 may do any other two course to bring their CGPA to the required level.
 8 Iterative Methods for Sparse Linear Systems MTS656 MTS525
 Comprehensive exam
 After completing the course work, the comprehensive examination would be taken in the second year of
 PhD. On Successful completion of comprehensive examination, the candidate qualiﬁes to work on a PhD
 Dissertation.
---
 103 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

S. No Courses Course Credit Pre- S. No Courses Course Credit Pre-
 code hours requisite code hours requisite

 1 Numerical Treatment of P.D.E. MTS621 3 MTS515 24 Algebraic Topology MTS674 3 MTS514

 2 Financial Mathematics MTS625 3 MTS537 25 Category Theory MTS606 3 MTS539
 3 Computational Astronomy MTS637 3 MTS545 MTS 242,
 26 Quantum Mechanics I MTS675 3 MTS 203
 4 Applicable Modern Geometry Il MTS645 3 MTS549 27 Special Relativity MTS676 3 MTS515
 5 Algebraic Geometry II MTS649 3 MTS553 28 De Rham Cohomology MTS677 3 MTS537
 6 Algebraic Cycles II MTS653 3 MTS366 29 Topics of Special Interest I MTS691 3 MTS545
 7 Algebraic Curves MTS655 3 MTS557 30 Topics of Special Interest II MTS692 3 MTS549
 8 Iterative Methods for Sparse Linear Systems MTS656 3 MTS525 31 Topics in Homological Algebra MTS621 3 MTS553
 9 Poly logarithms MTS657 3 MTS565 32 Computational Algebraic Topology MTS681 3 -
 10 Timescale calculus MTS658 3 MTS451
 33 Topology and Category Theory MTS 686 3 -
 11 Computational Fluid Dynamics MTS659 3 MTS514

 12 Multivariate Statistical Analysis MTS661 3 MTS539
 13 Analysis on Manifolds MTS662 3 MTS242,
 MTS203
 14 Plane Curves and Singularities MTS664 3 MTS515

 15 Mathematical Physics II MTS665 3 MTS537

 16 Advanced Topology MTS666 3 MTS545

 17 General Relativity and Cosmology MTS667 3 MTS549

 18 Scientiﬁc Programming MTS668 3 MTS553

 19 Convex Analysis MTS669 3 MTS366

 20 Algebraic Number Theory MTS670 3 MTS557

 21 Monomial Algebra MTS671 3 MTS525

 22 Topics in Homological Algebra MTS672 3 MTS565

 23 Computational Continuum Mechanics MTS673 3 MTS451
---
 PROGRAM 104
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25
Students enrolled in Spring 2024
 Undergraduate
 Programs Enrollments Male Students Female Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs
 Bachelor of Business Administration 1120 641 479 3901 773 54
 BS Accounting and Finance 1054 709 345 Male Female Male Female Male Female Total
 BS Computer Science 639 455 184 2317 1584 540 233 28 26
 BS Economics 480 269 Total male Students 2885 Total Female Students 1843 4728
 211 Male Students 61% Female Students 39%
 BS Economics & Mathematics 203 112 91
 BS Mathematics 52 28 24
 BS Social Sciences & Liberal Arts 353 103 250

 Total 3901 2317 1584

 Graduate
 Programs Enrollments Male Students Female Students
 MBA - Evening 239 188 51
 MBA - Morning 97 58 39
 Executive MBA 156 121 35
 MS Computer Science 53 40 13
 MS Development Studies 18 8 10
 MS Data Science 79 50 29
 MS Economics 22 17 5
 MS Finance 12 8 4
 MS Islamic Banking & Finance 39 31 8
 MS Journalism 5 2 3
 MS Management 21 7 14
 MS Marketing 17 2 15
 MS Mathematics 15 8 7
 Total 773 540 233

 Postgraduate
 Programs Enrollments Male Students Female Students
 PhD Economics 20 10 10
 PhD Mathematics 16 9 7
 PhD Computer Science 18 9 9
 Total 54 28 26
---
 105 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25

 Calendar of Holidays
 Gazetted/Public holiday 2024
 Independence Day August 14, 2024
 Eid Milad-un-Nabi* September 16, 2024
 Iqbal Day November 09, 2024
 Birth anniversary of Quaid-e-Azam/Christmas December 25, 2024
 Local/Optional holidays 2024
 Urs of Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai (14 Safar)** August 20, 2024
 Death anniversary of late Benazir Bhutto** December 27, 2024
 Gazetted/Public holiday 2025
 Kashmir day February 05, 2025
 Pakistan day March 23, 2025
 Eid-ul-Fitr* March 31 to April 2, 2025
 Labour day May 01, 2025
07 Eid-ul-Azha* June
 Independence Day August 14, 2025
 Ashura* July 5 & 6, 2025
 Eid Milad-un-Nabi* September 06, 2025
 Birth anniversary of Quaid-e-Azam/Christmas December 25, 2025
 Local/Optional holidays 2025
 Death anniversary of late Zulﬁqar Ali Bhutto** April 04, 2025
 Urs of Shah Abdul Latif Bhitai (14 Safar)** August 09, 2025
 Death anniversary of late Benazir Bhutto** December 27, 2025
 * Subject to moon sighting
---
 PROGRAM
 ANNOUNCEMENT 2024-25 106

Excerpts of the academic calendar 2024-25

Orientation Fall 2024 August 16 to 18, 2024

Fall Semester 2024 August 19 to December 14, 2024

Convocation 2024 December 07, 2024

Orientation Spring 2025 January 19, 2025

Spring Semester 2025 January 20 to May 19, 2025

Summer Semester 2025 June 19 to August 02, 2025

Orientation Fall 2025 August 15 to 17, 2025

Fall Semester 2025 August 18, 2025
---
Main Campus
 University Enclave, University Road,
 Karachi - 75270 Pakistan
 UAN: 111-422-422

 City Campus Iaa
 Plot # 68 and 88 Garden / Kiyani Shaheed Road, 3
 Karachi - 74400 Pakistan
 UAN: 111-422-422
 info@iba.edu.pk
 www.iba.edu.pk
